Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 50
Title: What do you need from us?
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Stephen Tomicki

Christine Laperriere:
And today I have a gentleman by the name of Steven on the show.
What I'm really excited about is that I have been answering some of the great outreach that I've gotten on LinkedIn where people have said, hey, wait a minute, I have a best boss and I wanna talk about them.
And so Steven is one of those cases.
So Steven, please introduce yourself.

Stephen Tomicki:
Thank you for taking the time.
My name is Steven Tomicki.
I live in New Jersey.
I have a master's degree for international business as well as an engineering degree from Villanova University, Go Cats.
Diehard Eagles fan, so I'm excited about this weekend.
I've been in the construction, engineering, environmental business on all four sides of the fence, meaning that I've been in the trenches, I've been in the boardroom, I've been an owner of an engineering firm, and then I've been on the project management side, managing staff and also being one of the Indians, so to speak.
That's me in a nutshell, glad to be here.
Thank you, Christine.

Christine Laperriere:
That's great.
And so I'm just gonna dive in with the question that I'm excited to ask you.
Can you think of who your best boss ever is?
Tell us a little bit more about why you think of him that way.

Stephen Tomicki:
Well, it's interesting.
I said, okay, let me go back to when I started working when I was 12 years old, how I started working.
And I think the big thing when we were younger, and it was just a way of life back then, things were different, at least that's what I thought.
So in my teens going into even my 20s, nobody really appreciated anything.
You did your job, nobody said you did a great job, at least for me.
I didn't get any positive reinforcement, it was only negative reinforcement.
There was no such thing as a team player, although as I was part of the team, there was always a good camaraderie.
And I blame my parents for that, for teaching me and bringing me up, right being the oldest of five.
And then as I transitioned, I went to school, engineering, had a lot of job offers when I got out of school.
So I was kind of like picking and choosing where my personality fits.
I did a lot back then to make sure I was choosing the right career path.
And along the way, there was a number of speed bumps with the wrong bosses, the wrong companies, being mistreated, people having tunnel vision, unwilling to listen to ideas from the snot-nosed kid, graduate in engineering school, who might have a good idea.
And this goes on.
So as I thought about the question when I originally saw it on LinkedIn, I was like, hmm, what makes my current boss the best boss ever?
Well, he calls me every day and asks me how I'm doing.
And that was before I had a cancer diagnosis and started chemotherapy back in August.

Christine Laperriere:
So he's always called you every day and asked you how you're doing.
Yeah, now it's just more often.
He says, are you sure?
I'm like, Rob, ask me one question and I'll give you one answer.
Ask me again and I'm gonna give you the same answer unless you have like a couple hour delay, you know?
And the company I work for has allowed me to work from home, even though my office is a half hour away.
And he's the one who said, you know what?
You can do the same thing from home.
We just will miss him in the office.
So, you know, some of the things that I mentioned were they're not bullies.
The reason I worked there is because he had a heart attack and was out for quite a while.
And the company ownership, which is a 40 year old family owned company, one of my friends is one of the owners and he called up and said, oh, what are you doing?
Can you talk to us?
I need some help.
And I was babysitting a job site out in Council Bluff, Iowa.
And I said, all right, well, yeah, I'll come in when I come back and I did.
And long story short, there may be an offer I couldn't refuse, but I was replacing him and two other people.
And I was really thrown into the fire.
And, you know, after a couple of weeks of recovering, he started to call me every day.
And the support was, you know, it was great, but I was doing most of the support as well.
So, you know, we created a teamwork environment and I changed a lot of the processes that were there.
And instead of him saying, when he got back saying, yeah, we don't do things this way.
It needs to go back the other way.
He didn't do that.
He goes, oh, these are great ideas.
We'll implement them.
So that was unique.
He's always willing to listen.
In the past, a lot of my bosses, presidents of companies, co-ownership, they bully you.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah.

Stephen Tomicki:
Whether it be a political thing, you know, one of the things that my wife was mentioning earlier from a previous job is that my boss, who wasn't doing too well with the team, decided that he was going to take the project that I had won with a very large beverage company, which was worth millions of dollars, and give it to someone else's credit and took it away from me.
Yeah, that relationship didn't last much longer.

Christine Laperriere:
Right, right.

Stephen Tomicki:
But, you know, because of political pressure inside of the company, that person who he had a 10-year relationship with, it went to the political side as compared to my two- or three-year relationship, which is, you know, I know companies have it, Christine.
It was really sad to be on the receiving end of that.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, it hurts, right?

Stephen Tomicki:
Yeah, and it's unjustified, you know.
But, you know, lesson learned there, I would never do that to anybody.
You know, creating a team environment for my current boss has always created a team environment, both as camaraderie with the guys in the field or the people in the office, but he also fosters that between the two of us.
You know, we'll sit down and have a meeting about a project, and it'll go an hour.
Where, should it be less?
Probably not, because we discuss a lot of the ideas that we have about, okay, let's not just discuss the project today, let's talk about it two weeks down the road.
I have a very unique project management style.
I work from the rear end of a project to the front end.
So I talk about caveats and what can go wrong, and if we go over, are we responsible for liquidated damages, et cetera?
And that was one of the philosophies that I changed internally that everybody understands, okay, where's our risk?
And a lot of them, a lot of people don't generally, they don't perceive risk, they just do what they're supposed to do and hope for the best, where I'm one of those people that I wanna know where my risk is coming from and how I can either get rid of it or understand it.
That was something that it was awesome for him to understand and take ownership together with me the way that I do that.
So that was nice.

Christine Laperriere:
He appreciates the diversity of thought versus rejects it.
So can I, if it's up to you, if it's too emotional, but I'm just curious, can you walk me through the experience of, obviously you started to recognize something was wrong and then you went through this cancer diagnosis.
What did the conversation look like with your boss through that entire process?

Stephen Tomicki:
Well, I was diagnosed with cancer in 2017.
Okay.
I had a mediation thing and it was fine for a couple of years.
And they decided that they needed to start giving me light chemo with pills just to keep it at bay.
It's prostate cancer.

Christine Laperriere:
Okay.

Stephen Tomicki:
And then after a couple of years, that was working well.
And then all of a sudden in this August of this year, last year, I'm sorry, it was kind of like a three-day horrible experience that I ended up in the hospital.
When I told them I was going, he goes, and you're okay.
It's like, I'll let you know.
And he started texting me knowing that he didn't wanna call me.
And I told him the next day and I was in the hospital for five days.
And then when I got out and I told him I was gonna get some testing done to find out why this happened, I didn't tell him my cancer was back.
At that point, we didn't know.
Just thought it might've been, I don't know, a kidney stone, something like that.
So next week I went through the testing and then that's when I told him over the phone because I wasn't allowed to be around anybody because my white cells were like zero.
So yeah, he was like, all right, what do you need from us?

Christine Laperriere:
Wow.
What do you need from us?
Yeah.
So he never once was trying to figure out how you're gonna work, what he's gonna do.
Like, no, it's just what do you need from us?

Stephen Tomicki:
No, and him, my colleagues, the owners, they're constantly, they send me food.
They sent me fruit.
They sent this gift card to go to get like DoorDash.

Christine Laperriere:
Wow.
You know, get well soon.
We miss you and don't eat too much.
You know, and I did lose 50 pounds going through this.
So now they call me Skinny Steve.
So it's pretty funny.
Some of the other things that I worked on him together with is, and some of the things that I had actually talked to him about in the past that I kind of was kidding and I gave him a warning.
You know, like, don't ever do this to me.
And it was more like a conversation we're having now.
And I was like, yeah, I've had some bad experiences.
Just want to let you know that I won't tolerate that anymore.
And he goes, well, what are you gonna do?
I said, probably I don't have really a temper, but I probably wouldn't like it.
And he goes, well, that's nice.
I said, yeah, you know, I'm 6'1", at that point, 270 pounds and the poor guy is 10 years younger than I am.
And he was just coming out of being sick.
He had lost some weight.
So he was a shadow of his former self.
So that was an interesting conversation.
You know, one of the things that I really enjoy about it is when he makes a mistake or when the team makes a mistake.
I learned this a long time ago.
It's a lesson learned experience as compared to a shouting match or why did you do that?
Or you're fired or, you know, it's just who he is.
And it's who I am too.
You know, why would he yell at somebody?
Although one of our kids, I'm sure, would have a different opinion, you know, but the other thing is he's willing to learn from me and he's willing to learn from others.
So if there's a different way of doing something, you know, he'll be more than happy to give you his opinion.
Like, I don't think that's a good idea or that's a really good idea.
Probably the most, I don't expect somebody to pat me on the back and say I did a really good job or I did a good job or that was a great idea.
I don't need that.
You know, I know who I am.
I'm 63 years old.
At this point, I know how good I am.
I have a pretty good self-esteem as you can tell.

Christine Laperriere:
So, but when you get that, it's amazing.
That's amazing.
And it's pretty amazing when you feel so touched by their response to you getting sick that it's emotional.
Like that's pretty special given that not many people can say that they feel that from, you know, they feel that maybe from their spouses and their family and their friends, but it's very rare that people say, well, gosh, you know, the place that I work at, you know, it brings me to tears when I think of the way they've loved and supported me through this.

Stephen Tomicki:
You know, my wife and I were talking yesterday.
I said, you know what, you know, I'm like three years and change away from like full retirement age.
What if I told them in a year or two that, listen, remember when I was sick and I worked from home?
Well, how about if I work from home from Florida or North Carolina or South Carolina?
Can I do the same thing?
She says, well, what do you think they'd say?
I was like, well, I think they'd say sure why.
And that's what explanation, but it wouldn't be, I know you're out of your mind.
You have to sit in your seat.
You know, it's, I think we've learned a lot, not only through COVID with people working from home, although our company didn't close.
We just had two thirds of the staff working from home and then the one third would come in and then the other one third would rotate out and come back in.
They did a really good job with the COVID thing.
So like working from home was not new to them, but I think working from home had COVID not happened, it would have possibly been different for them, how they would feel about somebody working from home all the time, seven days a week, you know.
And I'm just blessed that throughout this treatment time that I've been able to get through chemotherapy and still work almost every day.

Christine Laperriere:
You know, you're right, because they've created that flexible environment for you so you can keep yourself healthy.
You know, like you said, you gotta make sure you stay away from the germs right now, but also being able to get up and contribute in an environment that's not toxic, but is a healthy environment for you to show up to is also a healthy part of recovering from a difficult illness.
You know, like that's what you're going through would probably be harder if you weren't able to go contribute and add value to something important.

Stephen Tomicki:
Yeah, my wife says that all the time.
If I couldn't work or I couldn't contribute as much as I do, which is probably way too much.
There's times that, you know, I get out of my seat.
I start, you know, working at, you know, six o'clock in the morning.
Sometimes I don't stop until seven at night.
Not too often since I've been sick, but there's times that I feel really good that I've been able to do that.
And I get yelled at by this same gentleman.
Like, what are you doing?
Like, well, I'm able to work today so if we're gonna do it, you know, maybe tomorrow I'll take a longer lunch.
You know, do that.
So it's nice.
But, you know, some of the things that I learned in my 20s, I had some horrible bosses, bullies, people that would fight.
They would curse and yell and scream at you.
There was no positive reinforcement.
It was all negative.

Christine Laperriere:
Why do you think that was?
If you look back over the years of your career, what is it about that environment that, why did that work?
Why was that even sustainable?
Today, that sounds crazy, but I know, because I lived in that work environment too.
Like, why do you think that was?

Stephen Tomicki:
You know, I thought about that.
Like, was it my fault that it was either one?
I'm like, no, there's other people that he treats just as poorly.
I guess that, I'll blame it on poor parenting.
You know, you think about, and I knew him pretty well.
I worked there for quite a long time.
The only thing I can think of is he learned that from somebody, somehow, some environment that he thought it was a-okay to treat people like that.
And he treated everybody like that, from his au pair to his ex-wife, to his little child always yelling at him, put away your clothes, put this, put that, you know.
So he was just a nasty man.
And, you know, I was there for way too long, Christine, but did I gain a thicker skin from it?
I don't know if thicker skin is the right term, but I did gain a conscience of, I will never put up with this again.
And I had not, had not.
But the other thing is, you know, coming out of my 20s, going to my 30s and 40s, I didn't realize what a political environment was in a company, because at that point, I really hadn't been exposed to a heavy political environment, you know, or the backstabbing, or talking behind your back, or taking credit for things that you did, and somebody else would take credit for it.
It was like a bad Lifetime movie at times.
Some of the things, they were just, along the way, unwilling to listen.
It was their way or the highway.
You know, it was just not a comfortable environment.
But again, if you want to survive in that particular arena back then, you had to deal with it, you know, keep your head down, go onward.
That's one of my favorite expressions, onward.
I use it a lot, especially now.
I do have a couple of favorite expressions.

Christine Laperriere:
Do share, do share.

Stephen Tomicki:
Careful of the toes you step on today.
It might belong to the butt you have to kiss tomorrow.

Christine Laperriere:
That's fantastic.

Stephen Tomicki:
Yeah, that's one of my favorites.
I've taught that to my kids.
It's never, this is one of my favorites, and people don't understand what this means, generally.
It's never what is.
It's only what's perceived.
So if you thought you did a really good job, and your client, your customer, your boss, your company, or anybody else that you work with thinks you don't, it's, you know, it's not a screaming match that says, you know, how wrong you are.
It's like, look, they perceive it as, you know, not a good thing.
And even though you think it is, doesn't really matter, what you think, it's what's, who perceives it.
Oh, if you think you did really good at your job, and your numbers are up in sales, and your customers like you, and your boss comes in and says, listen, I talked to a bunch of your customers.
They don't like you.
What makes you think that your customers like you?
I don't know.
I kind of thought I was doing a good job.
They don't perceive that.
And I stole that perception.
They don't perceive that.
So I said, all right, well, it's never what I think, or never what is.
It's only what they perceive.
That's really helped a lot.

Christine Laperriere:
It helps you not kind of like over count your own perspective against those of those around you.
Right?
It's like, it's a smart way to keep in mind that it's multiple perspectives that kind of make up reality.

Stephen Tomicki:
Right?
Which goes back to that lesson learned philosophy.
If people don't think they made a mistake, and you're going to use it as a lesson learned opportunity to say, look, all right, you screwed up.
You messed up.
You made a mistake.
No big deal.
All right.
Let's find out why.
And is it my fault?
Did I not teach you right?
Did we not teach you right?
Where's the shortcoming here on our side?
What could we do better?
And you want to talk about change in the perception.
When people go into those meetings or they hear you on the phone, they're like, rutt rutt, a little scooby doo, right?
Rutt rutt in trouble.
And 10, 20, 30 seconds into the conversation, it's like, wow, I didn't think that was coming.
They're asking me for what I thought and how it could be avoided going into next time.
And it's an open conversation as compared to a beration or a demerit.
You know, going back to that Steve McQueen movie a long time ago, you know, a dink for being, you know, that's not how it works.
You know, if you talk to some of the people in our company and some of the companies I've worked for in the past, you know, who's our worst employee?
Well, I don't know.
It doesn't matter.
But some people would answer that very differently.
Oh, it's Jack.
He's, you know, he keeps doing this, you know, and that's a shame that that happens.
And then in an instance when I was working for quite a long time, I went and talked to Jack and I said, dude, what's going on?
You know, why do you keep doing that?
He goes, oh, I have bad hands.
And every once in a while when I'm holding something, my hands just go.
I'm like, oh, have you had anybody take a look at it?
I'm like, no.
I said, he keeps dropping stuff on his feet and, you know, broke a toe, broke a metatarsal.
And it's happened three times in two years.
I'm like, okay.
So now I know.
So as an owner of the company back at that, I came back and I said, look, Jack needs help with his hands.
And they said, well, what do you think we should do?
I said, tell him not to pick up anything over 20 pounds.
And I don't think it would be a problem, not a 45 pound manhole cover.
You know, but had I not done that, had I not realized that they perceive him as a problem child, if you will, and a liability.
And now we know why, but no one's ever asked on that.
They just say, oh, you keep your cluts or you keep doing that.
Or, you know, there was no understanding why it happened.
I think understanding that people are going to make mistakes for humans and lesson learns, understanding perception, teamwork environment, the things like that that I foster.
And then you're gonna, probably the next question, you're gonna say, okay, what's your worst trait?
You know, am I, this comes up a lot, you know, too nice.
I'm not the jerk.
I don't know when to put my foot down.
I certainly pull the rip cord, but I don't know when to put my foot down.
And then there's a difference as we know.
And that's a fine line to understand.
Pulling the rip cord is really understanding, you know, when do I need help?
And when do I realize I'm in trouble, that it's too late or just about to?
And, you know, again, lesson learned, how do you preemptively make sure that that doesn't happen again?
Well, we all know why.
Just understand your process from the beginning and realize that if there is risk, is it your fault for risk?
Is it someone else's?
It's do things come up that you need to understand that you don't, but you think you do?
Ask for help.
And I think that's where my current boss and the people that I'm surrounded with, they always ask questions.
We always ask and challenge each other.
A great example is we're doing a project where we have a lot of concrete that needs to be repaired.
And we said, okay, that's cosmetically making sure it's stable on the outside.
But how do we fix to make sure that two years down the road, three years down the road, that there's not a problem and it doesn't come back on us because we did the work, even though at that particular point we're going to say, okay, it's a foot below the work we did.
So we decided to talk to our client about risk versus reward for them.
Do we spend the extra time and money to make sure that the concrete is in good condition a foot below as compared to just on the surface that we did some cosmetic repairs.
And that conversation went well.
But again, going back to the end of a project, it's not when you finish work.
It's years down the road since your name, your company's name is on that project, no one's going to remember, oh, you only did the cosmetic work.
You didn't do the other concrete work that should have been done.
It's our fault.
So I think that's where my experience has come in that you got to think down the road where you, and of course documenting everything is another whole thing that I brought there that everybody was documenting things on their dailies or casual conversations.
So we created a number of things internally, at least for me, that I would document everything through email.
And it's searchable as compared to a text or a picture or a piece of paper in the paper file.
So it's, again, lessons learned over 30, 40 years of document everything.
As I'm getting older, there's a couple of reasons for that.
First thing that goes when you get older, your memory.
And the second one is, and the third one is.
Yeah, call me when you remember, right?
I just think that the communication, lesson learned philosophy, listening to ideas, spitballing, as they say, big one for me with everything else combined is it's a non-judgmental atmosphere.
Nobody says that's a stupid idea, you idiot.
And I don't ever expect I'd hear that.
That's really nice.
And that's throughout the 40-year-old company.
But maybe that's why we all get along.
Good listener, flexible, even before I got sick.
The support was there.
He's not a bully.
He never says I'm the smartest guy in the room.
He doesn't act like that.
He's technically oriented, but he doesn't throw up all over you with everything he knows, which is one of the most annoying things ever.

Christine Laperriere:
I think it's amazing.
And I think given what you're going through, I feel like that tells even a deeper level around the commitment and the character of the people around you because it's not just sunny days, right?
It's like there's dark days and there's reasons why I'm sure it's inconvenient for you to be sick.
And it's not, you know, obviously you're, you know, you matter.
And so they'd like you to come back.
But, you know, in the meantime, they're struggling because your work is not being done, you know, at the same level.
And so it just speaks so much to how they respond to that.
I've shared a story before where I went through a concussion and I had two different leaders I was working with.
One who, you know, dragged me out of bed for a 5 a.m.
call because he was working in Germany and then berated me because there was something wrong with the slide deck.
And I was mid-concussion and going, I don't even know what my name is right now.
So like, this is really frustrating.
And he knew it.
I had already asked to move the meeting, but it was, you know, to him, it was like, we need this project done.
And then the second leader who I spoke with that day, right around that time, I said, I just suffered a concussion and I'm, you know, I'm having a rough week.
And he actually said, I want you to invoice me right now.
The last thing I want you to worry about is money.
Like, I want you to take as long as you need, get fully better, and we'll just make it up down the road.
And just the, the, the you first, like, you know, genuinely, his highest priority was making sure that I was healthy.
And then secondary, it was getting the project done that we were working on together.
But for him to just be so conscious of that human element, it spoke volumes, right?
And it was so interesting because it wasn't, it sounds like common sense, but then meanwhile, I literally got on a call with somebody who woke me up, you know, who said, well, the only time convenient for me is 5 a.m.
your time.
And then I'm on a call at 5 a.m.
And, you know, something was wrong with the slide deck.
And he just decided that that was going to be a 20 minute berating concussion and all.
It just didn't matter, you know?
And I was like, this is really so interesting to have these two very vast different experiences.

Stephen Tomicki:
And I, I've had Christine, and I'm sure you have too, we've had really good positive experiences in our career, and we will have other positive experiences.
But I think we remember the negative ones more, whether it be due to lack of understanding or while I came out of left field, I don't know where that expression came from, but, you know, it's like, wow, where the heck did that come from?
When those surprises happen, I want to dive into it.
One of the other expressions I use is, post-mortem doesn't mean after death.
It just means after you're all done, whether you made mistakes, made the profit you're supposed to make, or the client was happy, you have to deal with the positives and the negatives, the goods, the bads, the, wow, we could have made a lot more money over there if we had done this.
So it's, you know, like the end scenario.
If we did this and we did that, other people, when you say you're going to do post-mortem, you're like, you know, at the end of a project, they're going to actually talk about the project being, you know, how you created death, you know, and it's amazing that people view things differently.
If you look up, talk to different age groups, different experiences, and you say I'm going to do a post-mortem with you, they get all frazzled.
They're like, well, what's that?
Or there, this goes back to that perception word again.
What do they perceive as a post-mortem?
All right, in the past, people are going to get laid.
Heads are going to roll.
Fingers are going to be pointed, right?
Post-mortem.
It's not like that from my career in the last, I don't know, 20 years.
It's been a, okay, we did well here.
We didn't do well here.
Let's see if there's any SOP, standard operating procedure.
If there's an SOP that needs to be revised, changed, added, deleted, you know, or process that needs to be updated.
Let's do it.
Let's understand.
A lot of people don't.
They just want to know, okay, we were supposed to make 32% profit, we only made 21.
All right, tell me why.
And that's it.
Okay, great.
Off the call.
I've been on calls like that.
When you get off the call, I'm like, they don't want to hear anything else?
I'm like, okay, short-sighted.
Stole ideas and took credit for it themselves and didn't give you credit for it.

Christine Laperriere:
Idea thieves, they're all over the place.
I was just in a conversation not that long ago with somebody who was taking quite a bit of credit for something.
And I was just reminded.
I was reminded that it had been a while since I went through that and how wildly frustrating it is to sit on a call and have somebody brag about their great idea that you had been championing for much longer than they've even been in the role.

Stephen Tomicki:
Yeah, and the beauty of all this, even before I got sick, I don't worry about that now.
I've been here two and a half years and I don't worry about spewing my ideas and being you're an idiot or where you get that idea from.
Go back to the ice cream parlor and write it down on a napkin and throw it away.
Again, some of the expressions that people have thrown at me, that's not a good idea.
But go back to the ice cream parlor with the five-year-olds, write it down on a napkin and throw the napkin away next time you have an idea like that.

Christine Laperriere:
I've never heard that before.

Stephen Tomicki:
Well, you've got to consider the source.

Christine Laperriere:
That one wins top condescending statement of, you know.

Stephen Tomicki:
Go back to the ice cream parlor, sit down with the five-year-olds, write it down on a napkin and throw it away.
Next time you have an idea like that, go back and do the exact same thing.
I don't want to hear it in my call.

Christine Laperriere:
That one's, that's pretty bad.
So just as we come to close, Steven, is there a kind of words or wisdom?
I have a lot of leaders that are out there trying to be the best that they can.
I think you've shared a ton of insight.
I also think I hope we've really inspired some people to think about how you show up for your employees.
First of all, before something happens, right?
Before, you know, a life catastrophe comes your way.
But I love that it sounds like you didn't have to worry about being supported in that moment.
You kind of knew you were going to be supported and then they just blew you away with all the extra love and support they brought to the table that you didn't even expect.
I think that's an incredible testament right there for leadership.

Stephen Tomicki:
I think for leadership or whether you're, you know, at the Elon Musk level, not that they would care at that level or at my level or other people's level, I think that what we had talked about a little bit ago, it's not what is.
It's what's perceived.
So if you're thinking you're doing a good job with the people, you think you're managing them correctly as a boss, as a leader, you think, all right, let's hit the five top points.
Am I leading by example?
Yes.
Are my people doing well?
Yes.
Are they showing up for work and not taking every single day?
That's another pet peeve of mine.
Every single day that they're entitled to.
Are they doing that or are they really working hard?
Do they really understand what I expect of them?
Of course they do.
And do I talk to my people on a regular basis and I don't berate them.
I don't treat them as small.
I don't do that.
So if I do all those five things, but my staff, my team, they don't think I'm like that?
Well, how do you figure that out?
I think that's the biggest challenge as a leader is you think you're doing a good job and that goes back to that one of my favorite expressions.
It's not what is.
It's what's perceived.
How do you figure out what that perception is?
And if you do figure it out, how do you do a course correction?
Well, a couple of the tools we have in our toolbox is the lesson learned thing.
Talk to them as human being.
Sit down with them individually.
Don't talk to them in an open environment that, goodness, another one of those expressions.
The ambiguity of the written word.
The tone of an email and be misconstrued.
Sure, we know that because we communicate by email.
I think that's the toughest thing as a leader.
Whether you think you're doing a good job or not, your bosses, do they understand you?
Do they support you?
Do they really understand what your job is?
And you understand what your job is and is to perception both ways going up as it is going down to your staff, your support team.
I think that's the hardest thing.
For any leader, I think in the mid-level and maybe upper-level environment, I don't know if it would go all the way up.
The Elon Musk of a $20-30 billion corporation.
But I've worked for $15 billion corporations and met with the chairman of the board.
It was an interesting conversation in his office in India.
Very cordial, nice, wanted to hear what I had to say and then told my bosses, he's a keeper.
So my perception of that meeting way back when was, yeah, I was a little nervous, but I think I did okay.
But then to have that trickle down, you know, he's a keeper.
That was nice to hear that.
So some bosses get it and it might not be the positive reinforcement that some people demand.
And we know people like that, don't we?
They need to be constantly reminded about how good they are and you're such a value to the team.
Okay, great.
But when you get information like that, that's really important for me.
And I think for most, especially today, everybody is the ones that want to work.
We'll leave it at that.
They want to work harder.
They want to get new training.
They want to understand how they can better themselves.
They want to climb.
They want to get experience.
They want to be better at their job and be better for their company to be a better tool in the toolbox for them.
And I think that's a good portion, but not the portion that I really wish people would step up.
And, you know, so many people are, like I said, it's a, I'll give you a two-minute example.
There was somebody that was hired as a receptionist for a company.
And one of the added responsibilities was, can you do me a favor at night?
The cleaning people that we have come in here, the one that used to be here, she's no longer available.
She's going back, you know, to her other job.
So we have a little, for like the next week or two until they find somebody.
So they went around and they say, okay, this needs to be wiped down.
This needs to be wiped down.
And then please take out all the trash.
Okay.
So person comes back in the next day and she goes behind the reception desk and the trash can is still there.
But the other trash cans are all empty.
So the person was asked, why is this trash can full and the other ones are all empty?
Well, you didn't tell me to empty that one.
Now, I don't know how everybody that's listening to this is going to take that.
But that's just ridiculous.
They don't go one step forward.
I'll never forget that example when somebody told me that.
I was like, seriously?
He goes, yeah, yeah.
You didn't tell me to do that one.

Christine Laperriere:
They kind of missed the bigger inspiration behind the job.
But this was very, like I said, so fun.
I'm really glad that you took the time.
I know you're in the middle of going through a lot of medical treatments right now.
And so I appreciate that you took the time.
And I do think it's really special that you took the time to call out the great work that your leader is doing right now leading you because we need people to think, we need leaders that show that kind of compassion.
And leadership.
I think a lot of people are scared that if they're too compassionate, that somehow the results aren't going to be there or the business is going to go belly up.
And I think your boss is showing that that's not even close to the case.

Stephen Tomicki:
You want to know his name?
If you'd like to share it, we'd love to know.
His name is Robert Gauck, G-A-U-C-K.
And he's the division manager for the company I work for, which is AWT Environmental, based out of Old Bridge, New Jersey.

Christine Laperriere:
Wonderful.
And can we send him a shout out on LinkedIn?

Stephen Tomicki:
Sure.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
I just would love to, you know, all of us have had those bad bosses, but it's really fun to cheer on the good ones.
So it sounds like he's made a massive impact on you.
And I can feel it when I'm listening to you.
Yeah.
Amazing.
All right.
I'm sending you the warmest wishes for healthy, healthy, healthy months and years ahead.
And again, thank you so much for taking the time, Steven.

Stephen Tomicki:
Thank you for including me.
Hopefully it makes some impact for people that listen.

Christine Laperriere:
Absolutely.
If you want to hear more, join me at christinelaperriere.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.