Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 34
Title: We are family
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Rick Renaud

Christine Laperriere:
Today I have on Rick Renaud, and I'm thrilled that he reached out via LinkedIn to tell us a little bit about his best boss as he listened and reflect to the podcast.

Rick Renaud:
It's my pleasure, Christine.
I'm glad to be here.

Christine Laperriere:
And Rick, just for a quick introduction on yourself, can you share with everybody just a bit of kind of where you're calling in from?

Rick Renaud:
Well, I'm calling in just about half an hour southeast of Ottawa, nation's capital, in a small little town called Russell.
My wife and I have been here for almost 25 years, raising our two wonderful children who are no longer children, unfortunately.
My son is now 21, and my daughter will be 20 in December, so our family is pretty well all grown up.

Christine Laperriere:
So tell me, I mean, you said you saw the question, I'm curious.
Tell me a little bit about that best boss that you were thinking of.

Rick Renaud:
Well, I'm going to go back in time a little bit.
I'm 53 now and this this individual came into my life in the mid 80s, so I was in my early 20s at the time, fresh out of college with a basic electronics diploma, very eager to start using that knowledge.
This man who took me on in his little electronics shop on the Quebec side of the border here in Ottawa, that town called Hull, where his father started this business in the early 60s, 1963, to be exact.
And he took it over after his father's passing.
He hired me on as a salesperson slash electronics repair individual.
During that time, people actually brought their electronic equipment in for repair.
It wasn't the throwaway society like we have today where you buy a piece of equipment and five years it stops working, you toss it out and go and buy a new one.
Back then, a VCR, you know, the average cost of a VCR was about $1,200.
I'm not even going to go into what a VCR is for the young listeners.
You can Google that.
So he hired me on.
I think I was probably 20 years old when he hired me on.
As I said, I was ready to college and right away he took me under his wing, taught me what his company does and what his store was all about, the family heritage and so forth.
But it was more than just an employer-employee relationship right off the bat.
He had a knack of drawing people in and making them feel so absolutely welcome and so individually important to the success of his business that you couldn't help but love being around this man.
I'll give you an example.
When I first started, it was right during the time that they were doing inventory at the store, and this was a store that not only sold electronic devices such as, you know, sound systems and video machines and television and so forth, but they also did repairs on all of these products.
So he also sold electronic components, printed circuits and IC boards and all kinds of different components and so forth.
So each individual component during the inventory had to be counted, obviously.
So he tasked me, one of the first tasks that I had was to count the footage of wiring that we had, the different types of wiring that we sold to people.
There I was rolling out these coils of wire that had thousands of feet of wire on them and counting every foot manually.
And he let me do this for about an hour and then him and one of the other employees came behind me and the two of them were laughing.
And I looked at them and I'm like, what's so funny?
And they said, you know what, you're going to make it well here.
I said, why is that?
He says, we don't count the wire by the foot.
He says, we just estimate the role.
So right off the bat, you know, they played a little trick on me and it made me feel accepted day one that, no, this was going to be a fun place to work.
And it never ended after that.
It was just one fun time after another and it became, it wasn't a job.
It really wasn't a job in my mind back then.
It was kind of a second home.
It was a second family and that's the way he treated every single employee he ever had under him.
He treated them just like family and his wife was identical.
They would go out of their way to accept you into their home.
We used to go out for dinner at least once or twice a week and he would always pick up the bill.
He would never let any of us pay for it.
And he wasn't, you know, he wasn't a wealthy man by any means.
He provided very well for his family.
He treated his employees with respect and consideration that you went under your way to do the most you possibly could for this man.
And I think that's why he was such a great success.
Because he treated his people with respect and dignity and gave them a sense that they were very important to the success of his business.
It was easy for his employees to do well for him.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Rick Renaud:
They had no problem going the extra mile for him.

Christine Laperriere:
Absolutely.

Rick Renaud:
He was an amazing, amazing guy.
There was another time where I was going through a bit of a rough patch in my early 20s.
I had had a long-term relationship and it kind of went sour and things, you know, just didn't work out as they do at that age.
And I was feeling pretty low and pretty down.
I don't know what it was, but he just had a way of making me feel like it wasn't the end of the world.
And at the time I thought it was, okay, this is it.
I'm, you know, I'm done.
This is over.
You know, the whole dramatic, you know.

Christine Laperriere:
My heart is broken and it will never be.

Rick Renaud:
Exactly.
Yes.
I will never get over this.
We spoke on many occasions about it and he said, you know, this is only a stepping stone, Rick.
You got to take it as an experience and move on.
And yeah, it hurts and so forth, but you will get over it.
You will succeed in the end.
And that stuck with me for probably, I'm going to say 20 years after that.
He left such a lasting impression on me that I consider him a driving force in making me the person that I am today.
And I think as an individual who now owns his own business and has his own employees, to be able to say that about a person that you worked for, not somebody that was a part of your family or something like that is over and above anything that can ever be expected.
And if anybody has the opportunity to be able to work for an individual like this, there's no way that you can't benefit from it over time.
It's something that once you have it, you want to hold it and keep it as long as you possibly can because those type of people only come into your life very, very briefly.

Christine Laperriere:
And you have to take advantage of that.
What's so interesting about this too is that when you're working with somebody, you get hours of access to them.
So you have this lovely, he almost sounds like a father figure who is really supporting and rallying you on.
And you have a lot of access to him because you're spending your working hours, which to me is why a boss is so important.
I spend more time at work, sadly, than I get times with my family in a week.
So it's a question of you're getting that much access to that person.
It's lovely that you could get so much support.
You hit the nail on the head there.

Rick Renaud:
They are like family because you do spend seven, eight hours a day with them, five days a week or six days a week.
And you do develop, especially with this type of individual, you do develop a bond that is very similar to a father figure or a mentor.
And I considered him both, to be honest with you.

Christine Laperriere:
When I was hired, I guess he was in his late 30s.

Rick Renaud:
He had just turned 40, I guess, a few years after I started working for him.
And at the age of 20, I worked for him for almost five years before I moved on to something else.
And I don't know, it's just a very difficult thing to explain when somebody leaves that type of impression on you that it sticks with you for the rest of your life.
I'm going back almost 40 years.
I think of this man right now.
And it still brings joy and happiness to my day whenever I think of him.
And I try, now that I have my own employees, I'm trying to be the same type of person as he was with my employees.
And I can't see that being a detriment to anybody that works for me because the positive impact that it had on me as a young individual far outweighs any possible harm that it could do because it was an amazing experience.
And I know that I am a better person because of it and because of him.
And I kept in contact with him after I left the store.
We would talk weekly.
And I invited him to my wedding.
Him and his wife were both invited to my wedding.
Unfortunately, about three years ago, he passed away.
I went and visited him, myself, and a couple of other past employees that worked for him.
We went and visited him, I guess, about maybe a month before he passed away.
And he had changed drastically.
He was quite ill at the time.
He was suffering from a liver disorder.
And his mind has started to go.
He remembered us, but he couldn't remember that he sold his store.
He was asking questions, you know, is the store still open?

Christine Laperriere:
Who's running it now?

Rick Renaud:
The store has since closed and the building is no longer there.
It was very sad to see a man that was so influential in the development of who I became reduced to the shell that he was at that point.
It broke my heart to see him.
But every once in a while during our conversation that day, you would see a little glimpse of him appear now and then.

Christine Laperriere:
The jokester and the funny guy and the guy that always made you feel good.
And the guy that always had your back whenever you needed it.

Rick Renaud:
But it was very sad to see that he had been reduced to this state because he wasn't anything close to what he was when we were all working together.
And the day that I heard that one of the other employees had called me and said that he had passed away, Christine, that the sense of loss that I felt at that moment, the devastation that came over me was as if I had lost one of my own parents.
I knew it was going to affect me when I knew, you know, at that point we knew it was only a matter of time.
But when I finally got the word that he had passed away, it was an absolute shock.
We all went to his memorial.
No surprise that the hall that we were in was absolutely packed.
He had touched so many lives over the years.
He had so many people that, you know, adored him and looked up to him.
And it's just, it's sad to know that it's that time that people really realized what they had.
I'm sure he knew that he touched some people's lives over the years, but I don't think he realized how much of an impact he made on so many people.
And I'm just thinking about it now.
I'm getting, I'm getting choked up and I'm getting a little emotional about it because he was such an amazing, amazing individual to work with.
And I dearly, dearly miss him to this day.
Almost as much as I miss my own father who passed away almost 10 years ago.
It's a fantastic experience to have.
And I am so glad that I had the opportunity to work for such an amazing individual.
But it's, yeah, it was, it's bittersweet at the end.

Christine Laperriere:
It is, but, you know, I guess to me, maybe I'm being overly optimistic, but like what a powerful use of a life.
Like what a powerful way to make an impact.

Rick Renaud:
You know, there's, there's an old saying that I, that I've heard many, many times over the years is in a hundred years from now, it won't matter what kind of car you drive, how big a house you have, or how much money you have in your bank.
What will matter is the impact that you've had on the people around you.

Christine Laperriere:
Now, I'm imagining this is the question that's coming for you next.
But, you know, when you talk about his leadership impacting the type of leader you are, like this is where to me, these are called the butterfly effect, right?
So one person leads, they show you how it can be done and you lead the same way.
So if he had impact over all those people packed at his memorial and they all changed their behavior just a little bit as a reflection of having known him, like, wow, what a powerful impact.

Rick Renaud:
He, yeah, there's no question in my mind that the, the legacy that he left behind to the people that he worked with and the people that worked for him will stand the test of time.
In my view, there's no question about it.
He was a larger than life individual and I am a 100% better person today than I would have been if I had never met him.
The impact that he left on me and to this day, I still speak to his wife now and then, you know, she's, she's moved to Montreal to be closer to her kids and her grandkids now.
No, I try and keep in contact with her every once in a while and, you know, we'll chat through Facebook and stuff when we get a chance.
You're still family.

Christine Laperriere:
Exactly.

Rick Renaud:
That connection has never lost and even with, you know, past employees that we, that we all work together to this day, we still try and reach out to each other every once in a while to see how everybody's doing.
And, you know, when we do get a chance, we like to get together for a meal and just have a few laughs and enjoy each other's company.
But yeah, it was an amazing experience.
And I think today a lot of young people may not have that opportunity because those types of individuals are very few and far between.
And I think if you ever get a chance to work for an individual who gives you not only the opportunity, but the capacity to do things on your own and to make mistakes and to learn from them and to grow is a learning experience that you will never get in school, that you will never have anywhere else.
If you do find yourself in a situation where you're working for somebody who you may look up to or may look to for guidance, by all means cherish that relationship because you never know when it's going to end and you never know when that experience is going to benefit you later on in life.
I always try and explain to my employees that we work together as a team.
There is no hierarchy in my company.
We all have the same goal and we all have the same work to do.
And if you find yourself in a situation where you find it's too challenging or you don't have the answers, don't feel like you're a failure for reaching out to me for advice because that's what I'm here for.
And I look forward to those conversations where we can brainstorm as a team and come up with a solution to a situation.
And he was the reason why that is the way I am today because that's the way he treated us and that's the way that we work together.
And so far I think my employees are quite happy with the way things are going and I hope that everybody ever has a chance to be able to have that experience as I did.

Christine Laperriere:
That's amazing.
That's absolutely amazing.
And I guess I have one more question.
You know, in my world, obviously, I spend a lot of time hands-on with leaders trying to help them develop some best boss ever skills.
And so one of the questions that comes up every time a company makes an investment in a leader to help them grow, there's always this question around return on investment, right?
So I like to ask anybody that's worked for a best boss ever, what do you think the impact on the business was?
What was the impact on the numbers or the impact on...
You know, to me, it's not just...
I mean, not only is it this incredible feeling of the father figure that you experienced, but it's good for business too.
It's a win-win.
So I'm just curious.
Can you tell me what you think the financial impact or maybe even the benefits of the business, what did they experience?

Rick Renaud:
Well, I think the benefit to the financial aspect of things, I think, was we did work hard for him.
It was not a chore to do because we wanted to do it because he empowered us to make those decisions and to succeed.
And when the business succeeded, we succeeded because he treated us as if we were a very important part to that business.
In many cases, we were because we were the day-to-day face of that business.
The way we treated his customers reflected on him.
And we took pride in providing that customer service that was the keystone to success back then.
You got to think, this is a time before big box stores like, you know, Best Buy and so forth.
There were a number of little ma and pa shops like this in all of the national capital region.
And the only thing that differentiated you from the other was how you treated your customer and how you related to them after the sale.
It's great, you know, you go to Best Buy and you buy, you know, whatever component it is, a receiver, a TV, whatever.
As soon as you walk out that door, that transaction is over.
You're just a number to them today.
Whereas back then, your customers were part of your success.
You catered to them.
You went out of your way to go the extra mile.
You followed up with them after the sale to see if everything was well, if they had any questions.
You don't get that today.
And it wasn't a chore for us to do that because it reflected back on the company that we admired.
We were loyal to that person because he treated us as if we were part of the business's success.

Christine Laperriere:
The customer experience was bar none.

Rick Renaud:
Was the keystone of any successful retail store back then was how you treated your customer.
You know, today's world is so detached, you know, with online purchases and so far.
There's no customer connection anymore.
You buy it on Amazon.
You buy it on whatever website you can think of.
The transaction is over.
You got your product, that's it.
There's no after sales service like there was back then.
And I'm not saying that today is a bad thing.
It's just evolution.
It's just the way things progress.
But there is some aspects of that time that we may feel sorry that we don't have anymore as the future unfolds and as we, you know, progress and develop and become more autonomous in our daily lives.
But I still see right now in this world, to your point, I mean, I think an interesting conversation is I see a huge opportunity still for small business.
I, for example, have hired, you know, a landscaping company and they have been phenomenal.
And you can almost sense this really strong positive culture and they're coming out to do yard work, which, you know, I got to tell you, like, not a lot of people are excited about a job doing yard work.
It's not a very, very glamorous task.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
It's tough, right?
And but meanwhile, you just see that this team is happy and this team is high functioning and this team is, you know, they are on the ball and, you know, just again walked into the house the other day and looked around and went like, you know, all the detail work was done well and thoughtfully and it was just like, it's a different experience.
You know, I haven't interviewed them yet, but I just kind of think to myself, there's something different about that team than the experiences I've had in the past.

Rick Renaud:
It's funny you bring up that point, the landscaper.
I actually had somebody, my wife and I have a rental property as well and I had a landscaper come in and do some yard cleanup and so forth at that place and they did such a great job that I brought them over to our house to do some springtime landscaping.
They aerated and detached my lawn and I said, just do the front yard.
I said, we don't need the backyard done.
Well, he did the front yard, but he also did the backyard at no charge.
When I came out and I said, you did the backyard too.
He says, yeah.
He said, listen, you guys have been great to us.
You know, we did all that work over your other property and, you know, we appreciate the business and we appreciate the fact that you trust us that I just did it at no charge.
Don't worry about it.
You know, it's that type of service and that type of action that goes a long way in the future because if anybody in my circle of friends or family says, hey, I'm looking for somebody to do some tree pruning or something right away, I know exactly who they need.
So they're going to get repeat business from me through my network of individuals.
It's just you're paying it forward.
So you're going to get the benefit of that type of service later on.
You're going to get repeat business.
You're going to get new clients.
It's just the nature of the game.
Word of mouth is a very powerful marketing tool.
And I still think that there's an incredible demand for small business and there's an incredible, it's going to look different.
Like you said, over time, it's changed.
It is going to look very different, but those niche little stores and those niche little areas, those small towns off the beaten path, you are going to get some phenomenal customer service and some fantastic experiences.
Yeah, you might pay a little bit more, but in the long run, it's going to benefit you a lot more because you're going to have that experience and you're going to feel good about your process.
It's not going to be a faceless corporation that you're looking at.
It's going to be somebody's family business that provides them with the meals on the table and the after-school activities that the kids do.
It's very important and it's the backbone, I think, to our society.
Small business is the backbone to our economy.
Without them, our economy would collapse overnight.

Christine Laperriere:
Absolutely.
I am a giant advocate for small business.
And to your exact point, I will buy from an entrepreneur over a large company when I can, when it makes sense.
I appreciate the in-person transaction and the opportunity for something, just like you said, like I really, or I want to buy from companies also that employ best bosses that are having that impact on their people.
If I know, for example, that a large business is very thoughtful about that, it means something to me because we're not just running a business where all we care about is the stock value.
We're also running a business where we actually care about the impact the business has on the people.

Rick Renaud:
That's right.
And as an employer, there's also that level of responsibility that you have to your employees.
They rely on you for an income.
So you better make sure that you're doing the right thing to protect their income for the long haul because they're relying on you for that rent payment or that mortgage payment or that grocery bill that you do every week.
So it's a big responsibility to have employees, but you got to make sure that you're doing the right thing to your clients and your customers to be able to sustain that for the long haul.
Because if you shut down your doors tomorrow, you don't only affect your bottom line, but you affect all the bottom lines of everybody that works for you.

Christine Laperriere:
Well, listen, Rick, do you have any last words of wisdom, tips, anything that you want to share with everybody?
I mean, I hear a lot of aspiring leaders, ones who are trying to be best bosses hear this show and get some inspiration from it.
Any final thoughts for them?

Rick Renaud:
I think the only advice that I can give anybody, and this is the best advice that I can possibly offer is treat people the way you want to be treated and the sky's the limit.
You will succeed.
It's just, it's as simple as that.

Christine Laperriere:
Excellent.
Thank you, Rick.
This has been an awesome conversation.
I really appreciate it.

Rick Renaud:
Christine, it's my pleasure and I'm glad I had the opportunity to speak with you today.

Christine Laperriere:
If you want to hear more, join me at christinelaperriere.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.