Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 26
Title: Engaging people in a non-profit organization
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Christopher Gruits 

Christine Laperriere:
All right.
Welcome to the Best Boss Ever podcast.
I'm your host, Christine Laperriere, and I am thrilled that I have Christopher Gruits on today as my guest.
So really quick, just to start, I always talk about why I invited the guest on the show.
Amazingly enough, Chris Gruits and I have known each other since we were 12.
We were actually seventh grade sweethearts.
So I'm going to just start inviting all my sweethearts from the past onto the show.
The best boss ever show.
But the part that's so cool about Chris is that he has a very, very successful career in the arts, and we've been fantastic friends ever since.
What I really am excited about today is that we're going to talk about leadership in a very different industry.
Most of the time we talk corporate, but today it's going to be a bit different.
So Chris, nice to have you on and please introduce yourself.
Welcome.

Christopher Gruits:
Thank you.
It's great to see you and talk to you.
So my name is Chris Gruits.
I'm the executive and artistic director of the Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts, or Penn Live Arts at the University of Pennsylvania.
And so that's the second largest performing arts center in the Philly Metro.
And my career has mostly been in arts, culture and education.

Christine Laperriere:
And so I'm just going to dive in our big question of the day.
Who's your best boss ever? 

Christopher Gruits:
Well, it was interesting when you kind of tasked me with thinking about this.
I was pleasantly surprised looking back at my career, which has, you know, truthfully been in a variety of different places, geographically types of institutions.
And I was pleased to realize that I had a lot of really great bosses.
I had a lot of great leadership and a lot of great mentoring.
So I have a couple, but certainly I would say one of them was the head of marketing, somebody I worked for at a large cultural institution in New York.
I was really brought in to head up digital strategy for this institution.
And, you know, arts and culture is a kind of a unique business.
These are nonprofit business models, so they're mission driven, but they function at a very high level, at a very high level programmatically, curatorially.
They're bringing in artists from all around the world and serving audiences.
So I think in this business, you're really balancing both the kind of mission driven program with a very kind of brass tacks sales operation.
You have to sell tickets, you have to sell subscriptions, you have to get people in the door.
So it's very just like any business.
But the other component, of course, is fundraising.
So engaging donors and kind of your mission and your vision.
And so at that place, I had two bosses that were really great.
The first is the director of marketing.
And something that I always admired about how she managed was, she always really managed with context.
So if you think about transparency and management, this is obviously a big buzzword these days.
Everybody wants transparency.
And when you really consider it, you know, in my view, transparency really is about context.
How are you kind of identifying the why for the people that you manage and that team that you lead? Why are we doing this? Why are we making this decision? And I think in her case, she always identified the why and she always took the time to kind of talk it through with us.
We weren't just tasked with get this campaign out the door.
We got to hit the sales target.
That certainly was part of it.
But the reason we were doing it at that point in time or the why of doing it, it's supporting this program in this way.
We're trying to reach this audience in this way.
And that really gave us a different sense of purpose and mission in a lot of our day-to-day.
We really felt like we all understood we were all kind of buying into a larger purpose, which in a lot of ways is very important for nonprofit workers and managers.
They're all working in this industry, not for the money, but really because of the mission and because they get out of bed in the morning really excited about the mission of that organization.


Christine Laperriere:
Such a good point.
How do you engage people in getting all the heavy lifting done, especially I would imagine in your world? How do you get all that heavy lifting done when people, again, aren't getting paid the corporate dollars and they're not getting...
So how do you get them excited and motivated and engaged, right? 

Christopher Gruits:
Yeah, absolutely.
I think that what a lot of people don't realize about nonprofit management is that you're always under-resourced, right? You never have enough staff.
You never have enough resource to get things done.
People are very committed.
They're really working at an incredibly high level, managing multiple projects, multiple tasks with far less resources than a typical corporate environment.
And so I think in this case, my boss at the time really was able to kind of ignite passion in all of us.
We felt a sense of purpose.
And I think that was primarily a result of the fact that we had the context.
We understood the kind of background.
Something that she did which I thought was fantastic is as a senior manager, as basically a vice president at the institution, she would attend senior meetings and whatever she could share with her team that was not embargoed or not confidential, she would share with us.
She would give us updates about like what the big strategic conversations were.
And of course she had the blessing of CEO, but it was really about giving us the full picture.
So even some of the team that I managed as a director, kind of an email manager, for instance, they would understand why their emails were so important, why they were trying to communicate the program, what the CEO was thinking about programming for that particular week.
So the context I think really aided in a lot of our kind of bigger purpose and motivation.
I just thought that was a fantastic way to manage.


Christine Laperriere:
It makes so much sense, again, to rally people around a big vision, right? And then you said there were two of these great managers.


Christopher Gruits:
So I was really lucky to kind of grow up professionally at this place.
And I think the other person would definitely be the CEO.
This is somebody who is a mentor for me, who opened a lot of doors for me.
And I think in both of these cases, both of these bosses that I'm referencing, something as I thought about this or your podcast, something that really occurred to me is that in both cases, they really leveraged their professional networks for me and for other colleagues.
There was never this kind of position of, well, I'm the boss and I'm the only one who has access to this broader network of professionals and artists.
They were very ready to really leverage their professional network to give me resources to connect me with people who might aid in my own career trajectory.
And that made all the difference for me professionally.
They were very good about connecting me to a wide variety of people nationally and internationally that really opened a lot of doors.
So I would say in this case, the CEO of the institution where I worked, he was just a really remarkable driven visionary for our industry.
And getting back to this idea of context and transparency in a lot of strategic discussions with him when we were talking about institutional strategy or in these institutions, you're presenting programs for the public, performance programs, you're bringing your artists and working with them.
And a lot of it was he really led through asking questions through curiosity, I would say, why are you thinking that? How can we do this better? It wasn't necessarily we're going to be doing this and this is happening at this date.
It was more about what are we considering here? What are all of the facets that we can consider as a collaborative group? At the end of the day, he would make the decision, but it was really about walking us through a process of curiosity, of discovery and really collaborating to come up with what we thought was the best approach.

Christine Laperriere:
And that curiosity piece, I mean, it's so interesting how that creates like a more level playing field when you're trying to collaborate.

Christopher Gruits:
It's really true.
You certainly know with a CEO, a leader, they're in charge, they're the boss, obviously.
But we never felt like our perspective was taken for granted or we didn't have a say, if that makes sense.
It felt like we really were contributing that we all were kind of playing our part on really every level of the organization.
And I think that when you think about senior management and large institutions or companies and the CEO, of course, as you know, sets the tone, he or she sets the kind of culture in a lot of ways with that leadership team.
And I always thought it was so impressive that that really trickled down to the director level, the managerial level, that we really felt like, hey, we actually have helped make this decision or at the very least, we know why this decision has been made.
We know why these programs are going out the door next month or why we're scheduling things in this particular way.

Christine Laperriere:
So if I was a fly on the wall in a meeting with this particular CEO, can you just give me some play by play of what a meeting would look like? 

Christopher Gruits:
Sure.
So we would a lot of times be talking about curatorial decisions.
And so this CEO is also the artistic director.
And in my business, that really means they're the person that curates the season.
So it invites world-class artists and performers to the stages to perform for the public.
And so the quality of those artists, the types of artists are really at the highest level internationally.
And so that's a very interesting and very challenging business.
It's very tough to get artists to come to your venue to perform.
A lot of the time, you're managing tours.
A lot of the time, you're really always trying to stay ahead of the curve, right? It would be similar to a corporate setting where you're trying to do R&D to come up with that next product line to stay ahead of the curve for your customer segment.
And so in a lot of ways, he would walk us through curatorial decisions.
He would frame a decision and say, we're going to approach a festival, let's say next year, and it's going to be focused on this composer, on this artist, for example.
And a lot of the challenge was how can we best communicate that to the audience or what are some ideas or approaches we should consider for the paying audience? How do we best frame it for them? And then he would kind of task us with this challenge.
And as we would talk through that idea, for example, how do we best communicate this composer or how do we structure this festival? He would really ask so many questions and you would really be in a meeting where it's like, oh gosh, really, are there more questions, you know? But what I realized is that those questions really drew out a lot of different fantastic ideas and they weren't necessarily direct kind of straight ahead questions at the start.
He would kind of ask them from different angles, you know, well, okay, we're thinking about this composer, why is this important, for example? Why would an audience think this is important or why is this time of year optimal within the broader context of the season? And so that kind of questioning really, I think brought out a different level of consideration.
It really gave us just a broader view of why we were doing something and it led the team to feel like they had really considered and thought deeply about that particular program, project or initiative.

Christine Laperriere:
That is amazing.
Now I'm kind of curious when you think of any other people, first of all, that have shaped your leadership, even outside of let's say bosses, like is there anyone else that comes to mind? Because you've met, you know, world-class musicians from literally all over the world.
You've just worked with an incredible pedigree of people.
So I'm curious when you think of other people that have influenced your leadership, I'm curious who comes to mind.

Christopher Gruits:
So there are several people.
I guess I would generalize to start to say that the leaders that I've admired have always really clearly defined the future.
And so the examples I just gave you, that was more about context and curiosity and leading through collaboration and discovery, really having teams understand the why.
But ultimately all of those leaders and so many bosses that I've had have always defined the future.
They've really always defined for us where we're going and why we're going there and then communicate it over and over and over and over again, right? I mean, so many of us know, you know, in leading teams, like how much you have to communicate to that team to constantly remind them.
And I think as a manager and as a leader, you might feel often that you're just repeating yourself or you're beating a dead horse.
Oh my gosh, I'm telling them again what we're doing.
But I don't think you can ever communicate enough.
And when we're talking about organizational strategy or corporate strategy, departmental strategy, it really is about defining that future for folks so that they are operating under really clear guidelines and ideas about where we're all going.
Because it really, I feel in so many ways, empowers your team to make decisions based on that broader strategy that everybody's bought into.
So the best bosses I've had have always really defined that future and constantly brought us back to evaluating where we were.
I remember another institution that I worked at in Michigan.
We had an organizational strategic plan that everyone had put together and it was a five-year strategic plan.
And so often strategic plans are created with a board of directors and the executive staff and the team.
And then they're kind of just, you know, put away.
They're filed away and you've got a nice fancy report that you paid a lot of money for.
But they don't necessarily revisit it.
And in this case, what I thought was so impressive is the executive team and the organization set up a website that really was structured for both the board and the staff that had kind of a very kind of quantitative approach to our strategic goals.
So we would have goals listed by area, marketing, for example, or education or whatever.
And they would have kind of a red, green, or yellow process light around that goal.
So that at any point in time, and this sounds so silly to relate it now because it's so simple, right? You could, as a staff member, as a board member who is supporting the institution, really just dip in and see, well, where are we on that goal of increasing educational customers by 100% or whatever it was? Oh, we're at green.
We've accomplished that.
And here's how we accomplished it, right? With the brief summary.
And then when we would get to all staff meetings a couple of times a year, we would revisit these larger strategic goals from the plan and kind of look at the metrics and look at that yellow, green, red to see, well, yeah, we did.
And oh, by the way, here are a few that are in that yellow category that we really haven't moved the needle on.
Let's really revisit this and refocus on this.
And so I think that goes back to this idea of setting the direction, right? We've all collaborated to say, here's the direction we're going.
But then really communicating over and over where we are in that journey.
And as a manager myself and as a CEO now myself, I really have learned that that is so vital for teams to really understand where you are in that process.
So definitely bosses who did that effectively, the one in Michigan that I referenced was really a really fantastic experience.

Christine Laperriere:
That's such a smart idea.
Like that idea of having a place where everybody can go back and see the strategic goals.
The red, yellow, green is so simple.
It's like our brains, we want the quick answer, right? Like are we on or are we off? That's what most of us really wanna understand.
To your point, I see a lot of my clients do that where there's big, heavy strategic goals and then they kind of get tucked away and we just get busy doing tactical execution.
And a year later, everybody kind of looks back and goes, oh, I might've hit the mark on one or two but not quite so many, right? 

Christopher Gruits:
And I feel like it's a great point because I feel like so often, I would say particularly in the corporate world, but it also happens at nonprofits, we're really focused on our quantitative measurements.
What was our revenue? Right, what are our numbers? We're having our quarterly meeting.
What's our expense budget look like? What is our revenue looking like? We're really good at keeping track of those but tying them back to those broader strategic efforts, I think a lot of companies miss, a lot of organizations miss.
So I think if we can be good and kind of regimented around looking at our number goals, our sales goals, our engagement goals, et cetera, we have to tie those back to that larger strategy and really say at those times, take 15 minutes in your quarterly check-in with the sales department or whomever to say, okay, and how does this tie back to your department strategic goals? Where are you on those? And that connection between those two levels, I find a lot of bosses don't do but the bosses who do do that, I think just lead through much greater transparency.
They are giving you, they're reminding you of this direction in defining that future that you're headed toward.

Christine Laperriere:
So I'm just curious, when you think of the not best bosses you've worked for, that's always my favorite question.
Right, I've never had any of those.
You've never had a not great boss, so we know that but just let's say from other people's stories.

But no, it's just kind of interesting.
What are some of the traits that you've seen that for you personally were disengaging or the toughest traits for you to work for? 

Christopher Gruits:
It's a great question.
So I think that we all have had kind of the micromanager supervisor or boss who just really wants to control everything down to every last detail.
And so I think, of course, those are tough circumstances to work under, particularly if you're operating at a high level or you're achieving the goals in your job.
It's one thing if you're not doing your job and the manager has to step in, of course.
But so I think that kind of approach to kind of micromanagement is really challenging but something that I've always found with bosses, the bosses who are very protective of hierarchy and very protective of networks.
So you as kind of a 20 something assistant, for example, or manager trying to learn and trying to grow, those folks who really didn't want you in the room, who really kind of leaned on that hierarchy to kind of not bring people together, not bring them in, not let them have access to their professional network.
I always found that really challenging because of course you're not setting up an environment where a person can learn and grow and do better at their job.
And so that was always, I think, the more challenging type of aspects from the not great bosses.
Something else I thought about in thinking about the best bosses was my boss in New York, the head of marketing that I mentioned, she would always bring in guest speakers for us.
She would bring in people from outside of our organization who worked in the same industry to come talk to us to do like a coffee chat about what they were working on or some best practice that they were talking about or referencing.
And that provided so much outside expertise and influence.
And it not only was saying, hey, she was humble enough to say, there's people who know more than me in this particular area.
So I'm gonna bring them in and have them talk to you about what we're trying to achieve.
So it kind of, it was a great degree of humility in that sense, but also it gave us kind of a broader view or a wider view of our industry, which I think a lot of people forget when they're working in a big company or a big organization.
But certainly to answer your bad boss question, it was those folks who were the opposite of that, who didn't want you in the room, who didn't wanna connect you and really were very, very focused on the hierarchy and like who works for who.


Christine Laperriere:
When I hear that, it makes me feel like you're always being sent to the kids' table.


It's like you can't eat at the adult table.
You gotta go sit at the kids' table.
And you're always like, but really I'm not a kid.
Right, yeah, and I wanna learn.
I can handle what you're gonna talk about or whatever.
It's really interesting when you mention that too, because I can see where, even the protective with networks, as you introduce people to your network, it's a sign of confidence and trust and credibility.
And so it's very emotionally confirming that that person sees you as credible and sees you as valuable.
Whereas when they're hiding you in the closet, it's like, I don't feel very valued right now.

It's like, please, please you're not allowed to see the front of house kind of a thing.
So I think that's a great, great example.
Just to bring this to close, if you had to teach or advise future leaders on something, I mean, I hear your big points today around context and I really like your point around defining the future.
Can you give me a really tactical tip that you would give somebody who's really aspiring to be a best boss? 

Christopher Gruits:
That's a great question.
I think when you're managing a team, whether it's a department or a small team, even if it's one or two people, I think in whatever functional area that you're operating in, I think it's really important to take time and to reflect on how you fit within the larger picture.
So I think we're very task oriented in America.
This is something that's just part of our business culture.
It's like, you gotta get your tasks done.
You gotta move on.
And I think as a manager, certainly managers are always trying to balance task-based work and leaders are trying to move, certainly at a top leadership level, away from tasks and more managing other people's work and focusing on strategic decisions and partnerships, for example.
But I think if you're managing any team, you really have to step back and say, why are we doing this? How does this connect to the company's overall strategy? What's our piece of it? And why is that piece important? And if you don't take time to do that, people are just working in a vacuum.
They're just doing their tasks.
They're just completing and they may be getting them done, but they're not gonna be motivated over the long term to kind of deliver for you.
So I think that would be something that I feel is really important as managers.
You're connecting back to that bigger picture and again, communicating it over and over.
I also think of course, as managers, our job really is to help our employees grow.
The best outcome for you as a manager is your employee that's been working for you, that they're doing a phenomenal job.
You've connected them to your own professional network and help them leverage informational interviews and other opportunities.
And if they leave, that's not ideal for your day-to-day business in the short term, but it means that if they're going on to something better, you've really done your job as a manager.
And I think that I referenced my earlier CEO in New York, so many of the people that I worked with at the institution are now leading other institutions around the country.
And that's really a result of his mentorship and his investment in all of us.
So I think that that investment, after setting the direction, defining the context, really that investment in your people, of course, is the most important thing.

Christine Laperriere:
Just to kind of wrap this up, it makes me think when you're talking, I obviously work with over a hundred leaders a year and one of the things that we get really good at is teaching leaders how to coach and develop.
And the reason that that skill becomes important is because you might have turnover as people's careers advance, but if you love the teaching development and growing of your people, you really are never gonna have a problem.
It's your insurance policy.
So if you're just good at cultivating talent, you don't have to be scared if your talent goes on.
And the other thing is, is that then you start playing a long game.
So you're now influencing an industry and your reach is now all the way across an industry versus being just myopic and in your four walls.
And I think we gotta get leaders to think much bigger because just like you said, that great CEO you worked for who is busy connecting you to people outside of, in his network, you obviously have since moved on to another organization, but his reach is still there, right? And I'm sure your loyalty to him is gonna be there forever, right? 

Christopher Gruits:
Absolutely.
I think that's such a great point, Christine.
I think so much of that obviously is contingent on doing a good job, right? So let's preface the whole idea with, as an employee, you need to be doing an outstanding job and you need to deliver on your job.
But if you are and you have that type of boss or leader, you're absolutely right.
It's gonna pay dividends down the road and you're really gonna see more of an industry-wide impact over time.
Because yeah, leaders connecting their employees to their broader network can make all the difference for people as they develop their career, absolutely.

Christine Laperriere:
Well, thank you so much for coming on the show.
This was awesome.
And I know for a fact that my audience is gonna love this.
So thank you, Chris.
Thank you, Christine.
It's been great.
If you wanna hear more, join me at christinelaperriere.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 27
Title: Confidence and decisiveness attracts top talent
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Laura Todd

Christine Laperriere:
Welcome back to the Best Boss Ever podcast. I'm your host, Christine Laperriere, and today I am speaking with Laura Todd. I'm really excited to have Laura on the show because this is one of my favorite versions of how we create a guest. Laura reached out after hearing the show and she said, I have a best boss that I'd really love to talk about. And so for me, this is the perfect way to use this platform is to shine a light on fantastic bosses that are creating a difference. So Laura, thank you so much for coming on the show and I'll give you a chance to introduce yourself. 

Laura Todd:
Yeah, thank you for having me. My name is Laura Todd. I work for Baxter Corporation. And like Christine said, I had actually heard the show from a referral and it really hit me because I'm just kind of stepping into senior leadership and I'm always looking at how I can be that best boss. And so it's interesting to hear different perspectives. So I think this is a resource that we need and I think it will be really helpful for others to hear different perspectives and what drives everybody else. 

Christine Laperriere:
Who sent you the show? 

Laura Todd:
Yeah, so my best boss ever, Fiona, actually sent me the show and she is always sharing different resources with me, which I think kind of feeds into our mentorship relationship. And once she sent it to me and I started listening, the irony was kind of killing me because I thought, well, I think Fiona's that for me. And so I'd love to share kind of my experience with Fiona and just how, how she really inspired me. 

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing. So do tell us more. Obviously my first question is always, who's your best boss? Sounds like we have her identified. Tell us a little bit more about Fiona. What is it like to work with her and what are some of the things that really make her a best boss? 

Laura Todd:
I can remember my interview with Fiona. Like it was yesterday. I remember she kind of walked into the room, started a casual conversation with me. I think she asked me maybe two to three questions with some open dialogue in between. And within about three to four hours after that meeting, I had a job offer presented to me. And so my upfront kind of interaction with her showed her decisiveness and her bias for action. And I think that oftentimes we see kind of the slow bureaucratic movement of, of how things can go and her ability to really push things forward and, and know when she's kind of had that connection was a really great first impression. And then the next great impression I had was when I met the team. So I remember going in and they had a weekly meeting where it was kind of the operations leadership team and they all had did round table and they had an agenda. And I remember looking around the room and thinking, Oh man, these people are smart. And I I'm sure people have heard it, but you never want to be the smartest person in the room. If you're the smartest person in the room, you're in the wrong room. And I felt like I was just surrounded by the most high functioning team. And I think that's a really important tribute to their leader because she ultimately kind of assembled that team and made them and motivated them into who they were. She showed that you can bring a diverse group together and that doesn't mean it's always going to succeed. And so I think it's a, it's, it's definitely a tribute to her leadership in that sense. 

Christine Laperriere:
And that right there speaks volumes, you know, but it's not just her leadership, you know, a lot of people shine a light on their best boss, but what I think is really interesting is when you're looking around at the people that you're working with, they're performing at a pretty incredible level. And so that's, that's also pretty, like you said, very impressive because she assembled that and created that. 

Laura Todd:
Absolutely. Yeah. I think that that's kind of her, I would say, I think she would actually attest to that as well, that her legacy is always her high functioning teams and that she wants to assemble those high functioning teams and she wants to be the leader that takes them to that next level. And it was just clear right off the bat. It was clear the way they work together. It was clear the way they challenged each other. There was always respectful challenges. People willing to question each other, ask uncomfortable questions. And I think that you need to have an environment that that feels safe. And that's not always the case. And so again, just kind of a tribute to, to how she led the team was visible right off the bat. 

Christine Laperriere:
If we could, I mean, obviously she's not here right this moment, but if we could pick her brain on how she procures those people for the team, do you have any thoughts now that you've kind of watched her in action? 

Laura Todd:
So when she's talking to people, she truly listens. And I know that doesn't sound like a big deal, but it's really easy to always be kind of thinking of what's coming next and not being present in the moment and she, she listens to people she observes and she trusts her network and that's, I guess, another aspect of this is that a lot of her team came through referrals through other members of her team. And when you, and when you trust the people that you've brought in, they like working for you and they want to bring in other high performing talent. And so it's almost like a magnet. And I think that Fiona has created a little bit of a magnetic field around her where she attracts good people because she's good to work for. 

Christine Laperriere:
See, that's incredible. So I'm always looking for what is the real needy benefit of having a best boss. Obviously I'm working with leaders who are trying to aspire to be best bosses and it's always a trick of what is the, the metric, right? What is the financial benefit to the business by having a best boss versus just a good one, right? But, but when you say that immediately, it just gets me excited because it's such a perfect example that her being a best boss is such a huge talent attraction. So then that team by nature is going to perform head and shoulders above. 

Laura Todd:
Yeah. And, and to your point, I mean, I think oftentimes the P and L reflects the leadership style. And so if you can create that strong team that is directly reflected both qualitatively and quantitatively, cause you're going to see it at your bottom line. And the other thing is, is that the financial aspect of companies isn't just their success, but their predictability. And that's another aspect of Fiona that she was really strong with is she always knew what was going on with her business at all times because she wasn't afraid to get into the details. And so if I felt like I had something that was on the horizon or something that she should be privy to her door was always open. She was always willing to listen. And I know that it's easy when you, as you move up into senior leadership to forget that the people below you see things you don't see. And so you need to be able to trust her team to guide you. And she always trusted her team to guide her towards what was happening next. And I think that was reflected in her P and L being predictable and, and trustworthy. There was no big swings up and down. There was, there was predictability and preparation, which is, which is huge for a business. 

Christine Laperriere:
Oh, that's fantastic. I love the business case behind what the real benefit, right? There's real, meaningful, right? You know, as we were doing a little bit of prep, of course, it caught my ear about how she has supported your career, given the fact that you also have had two children. 

Laura Todd:
Yeah, absolutely. I think this is the biggest thing that I will always respect and remember about Fiona and something that I will carry with me throughout my career. I found out that I was expecting my first child a week after I started with Baxter. And so I had this huge opportunity. I was so excited to join Baxter. And I also was so excited to start my family, but my excitement was almost overshadowed by a little bit of guilt around the timing. I was just jumping into this goal and I felt like I was disappointing the organization and my leader. And so it was very conflicting. And I remember when I got to the point where I was, I was ready to tell Fiona, this is kind of what's going on. And I walked into her office and we just started chatting and I, and I told her, and I had this lump in my throat, like, like almost like when you're a kid, you feel like you're going to get in trouble. And I remember she just looked at me with a completely straight face after congratulating me and just said, Laura, women have babies. Women have babies that should not impact your career. And you should never be concerned about what that's going to do to your career. It's not something that we can control. And it's a beautiful part of life. And that was that. And she never treated me different after that point. And with that being said, I worked really hard for her. I mean, she knew she was going to get nine months out of me. And I wanted to spend those nine months doing the best that I could do for the organization and three weeks prior to going on maternity leave, she actually presented me with a promotion. And so it actually went into effect while I was on maternity leave, which is fairly unheard of. And it really puts some emphasis behind her words. They weren't empty words. They weren't just kind of a stock congratulations. She truly meant it. And she showed me that just because you're going to start a family and just because you need to kind of sit on the bench for a year doesn't mean that you're going to be held back or that your work is not going to be acknowledged. And I, and that really changed my life. And it was huge for me going into leadership, understanding that, like she said, women have babies and we need to find a way to support them. And we need to find a way to make sure that they don't miss out on opportunities because of that part of life. 

Christine Laperriere:
It's so true. And I mean, men are fathering babies. But it's interesting how their wife gets pregnant and they're not having the lump in their throat or they're not feeling sheepish when they walk into their boss's office to deliver the news. And so it's just such an interesting problem with the equality issue that we face because, you know, as women, I know for me, I started with an apology and I had had a horrific time getting pregnant. So it was just so ironic to be ashamed of getting pregnant. And thankfully, I was talked out of that pretty fast. A couple of great, great leaders that I work alongside who were just like, this is reason for celebration. And I'm like, it is. That's all I really want to do is celebrate. But meanwhile, you know, I feel it's hard to not be worried that the perception of you somehow changes. 

Laura Todd:
Oh, totally. And I think the big thing to remember is you do change when you become a parent. And that was, I think, another area that Fiona really helped me learn, because she's a mother herself. And when when I was coming back from maternity leave, I had no idea kind of what that was going to feel like. I am extremely career driven. I love working. I love my career. And I remember coming back from maternity leave thinking, I can't do this. I can't leave my little one. It's this is going to kill me. And the way she supported me kind of through that transition, she got me excited about work again without feeling like I was dropping the ball with my son. And as someone who's heading into leadership and who is now moving into managing bigger teams, I didn't understand that. I managed moms and I and I knew woman to woman. Hey, we have to they can't five o'clock meetings are right in the middle of dinner. Six o'clock is bath time. And so this is so I knew that, but I didn't know it until I lived it. And so I think not only her being so graceful with me and her walking me through that through me living it, I now have such a different empathy and support for women as a leader. And I think that it was just it fundamentally changed me. And I think she was really the one to attribute to that. 

Christine Laperriere:
It's amazing. Any other things that you want to add to that about kind of her leadership and kind of the power of some of the great things that she does? 

Laura Todd:
Yeah, I think honestly, I think the way she empowers her team to do really hard things is done so by understanding who everyone is. So the thing I have to remember is when she was kind of changing my life by promoting me and supporting me through this, there were 20 other people on her team that she had to manage that all felt that same support. And so they weren't necessarily going on maternity leave at that time. They weren't necessarily navigate. They were navigating completely different life challenges because as much as it's easy to forget, there's life outside of work. And so her team satisfaction showed that she wasn't just doing that for me. She was doing it for everyone on her team. And that takes her ability to stop and listen to her team and understand what's important to who and when and learn how to honor everybody in a different way. That makes them feel like they're a valuable member of her team. 

Christine Laperriere:
How does she do that? Like, how does she like, is it through flexibility? Is it through like how to tell me a little bit more about how she makes 21 of you all feel valued when you're all so different? 

Laura Todd:
I think she respects our differences as opposed to trying to make us all be one. And I think it's really easy to try and kind of lump your team together. So for me, what was important to me was that I had fairly strict work hours for drop off and pick up at daycare. And I wasn't willing to sacrifice that unless it really had to be done. And so she never scheduled meetings outside of those hours with me. She knew that if she were going to send me an email at 7 p.m., which she really did, that she would know that I would get back to her the next morning with other people. They they maybe needed to work from home a couple more days a week because of a different she was flexible. She she understood that if your job was getting done, it doesn't really matter how it gets done. And so if somebody works really well from four to 7 p.m., why are we forcing them to be online in a meeting from eight to 11? And so I think I think she just enlisted various tools of understanding what everybody needed and being flexible to those needs. And of course, there was we all had to work together and find a common ground. But she found a way to to make a team work well together in all different ways. 

Christine Laperriere:
Wow. Very cool. Just out of curiosity, when you think of you're not best bosses, maybe you've never had one. But what have you experienced in your career that really didn't work well for you? 

Laura Todd:
I can't say that I have a singular kind of worst boss that jumps out. I mean, but there are aspects of different bosses that I have had that are things that I've kind of filed in the back of my head as I'm not going to do that. And so kind of a couple of examples of that is you need to be willing to get your hands dirty. And so the biggest thing is you can't ask your team to do anything that you wouldn't do yourself. And so I've definitely worked for some leaders that that aren't interested in the details. They're not interested in kind of how we got here. They want the Coles notes and the Coles notes only I can give that to anybody who needs that. But at the end of the day, if you only have the Coles notes, you're not understanding how you got there and you're not understanding how you take your team to the next level. And so one thing that's always kind of been important to me and that I still value is I'll get my I'll get into Excel and I'll throw together spreadsheets and I'll do the analysis myself if my team needs that. I'll I'll jump into the tactical side of things, because if you're asking your team to do something that you that you're not willing to do, that is extremely demotivating. And so that's kind of I would say the big one that jumps out of me. The other one is just treating people like a number. Another name on a page. Like I said, it's really easy to forget that we're people. There's more outside of this work. And I think I think it's important to say, you don't need to ask me. You need to tell me what's going on. And so that was another area that Fiona was very good at is don't ask me if you can make a doctor's appointment. You tell me, hey, look, I'm going to the doctor's on Wednesday 12 to two. I'll be offline. And you need to trust that your team is is getting what they need to get done within the parameters that they have set and being supportive of that, because because kind of as we touched on, everyone's going through something different. Some have small children that they need to be available for. Some have ailing parents that they need to be available. There's things all over. And so listen to your team and respect your team as people, not just as workers. 

Christine Laperriere:
Oh, I absolutely agree. And I think to your point, it's easy when you're just trying to chase metrics and results to forget to slow down enough to acknowledge each person. 

Laura Todd:
For sure. And that's and that's actually some feedback that I have definitely kind of had to learn throughout my time. I'm I'm fast. What I when I work, I get things done quickly. And I think there has been times in my past where I I forget to bring people along with me. And so Fiona did a really good job sometimes just being like, Laura, stop. Just stop and think about the big picture here. And how are you going to bring people along? Because it doesn't matter if you have the best idea, if no one's willing to execute it with you. And so that's another aspect is you don't always have to be the first one with the best answer. You need to be the person who can get the group to get the job done and do it together. 

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing. We already talked about metrics, which I think you did a fantastic job of kind of explaining what that force field can look like when you're attracting in great talent and you're able to retain them and get them to really be these high performing teams for you. I think you've really answered that question for me. So I'm just going to come to, you know, kind of one of my closing questions, which is if you had to teach or advise future leaders on how to be a best boss, give me some really tactical advice. Like, how could they implement this in a very useful way? 

Laura Todd:
Get to know your team. So make sure you take time to talk with everyone on your team in a way that's not we have an objective to this meeting. So if it's a 15 minute touch point with your team, do it. It will always be worth it. And pay attention to what's important to them. That's kind of the first thing for me, I would say. And then the other thing is, is don't forget the details. That's going to reflect on your P&L. You need to be able to speak intelligently about your numbers. And you also need to understand what your team's going through. So I understand that not everybody can get into all the details all the time. That's why you have your teams, but know what's going on. Have your eyes on on what's going on at all different levels and make sure that you can speak intelligently to what what the numbers are saying so that you know where you need to focus extra energy and where you may have kind of risks and opportunities in your P&L. 

Christine Laperriere:
And then, you know what, I'm going to throw in one last question, too. I was just thinking about this. What, from a leadership perspective, have you or Fiona or, you know, again, kind of what have you noticed has been so mission critical as you've had to lead through COVID? 

Laura Todd:
That's a good question. So the biggest thing I would say is the virtual world is not working for everybody. I think it's offering a lot of flexibility that we were maybe missing in our lives. Baxter is already a fairly flexible organization, so not a huge impact there. But people are trying to balance being moms, dads, teachers, full time employees, therapists. They're they're trying to balance so many hats and they're being asked to do the impossible. And so understanding how in this virtual world you can still connect with your team. One thing I did last year was we had a weekly meeting with my direct reports. And instead of it being business related whatsoever, it was 30 minutes weekly. We picked a random challenge. You basically played a game and joked around on a Zoom for 30 minutes. You got points and whoever had the most points got a gift card. And it seems so trivial, but it was probably 30 minutes a week where I saw a large group of people laugh together that I wasn't seeing anywhere else. 

Christine Laperriere:
Right. What kind of what kind of challenge? I mean, tell me. I love this idea. 

Laura Todd:
So we did there's it's called like draw something online. So we would that was one week where we were all on a different like whiteboard and you'd have to draw a different picture. And then everyone's guessing it. And whoever gets it right gets the point there. And so that was like one week's game. Another one, we did a work from home scavenger hunt. So there was like a bingo card and whoever went and got their item first came back and had that item and they got the point. And so it was just like silly things that you're trying to navigate. Hey, how do we still have team building virtually? And we would laugh so hard. And like I said, like they're you're not getting together with groups outside of work. You're you're isolated. And the first time where you'd see 10 people all laughing together. And so it was just a really nice kind of midday break that everyone needed. I'm sure it was outside of some people's comfort zones, but it ended up being really great for everybody. 

Christine Laperriere:
You know, I love stories like that, though, because what we're missing is all the small talk and all the the little tiny bits of coffee and one of the things that I talk about a lot when I'm working with, you know, high potential talent is like relatability matters. So like if I can anticipate you and I understand you and I see you as relatable, it's easier for me to anticipate how to work for you and how to get things done. So like if you think of a team on a on a field, they're all trying to anticipate each other, right? They're trying like, are you throwing me the ball or are you not throwing me the ball? Like, you know, it's kind of we're trying to figure out, oh, does the coach want me to grab the ball? Not, you know. And so we're a lot of things are happening silently through anticipation. And a lot of that happens through the relationships that we build that make people relatable. Right. And so, you know, it's just interesting when you talk about this, because the idea of, quote unquote, what might be perceived as wasting a half hour is, in my opinion, actually putting all the glue into the tiny little cracks of the team, you know, that might otherwise kind of wear over time. 

Laura Todd:
Absolutely. And it's tough. Like, I don't doubt. I mean, my normal day was eight hours of meetings. And so it's tough to make time for that, but it's worth it in the end. 

Christine Laperriere:
And like you said, I do think also at this time with all the mental health, we really do have a true mental health crisis happening. I think you've got people laughing and connecting and feeling connected to a group. I think that's probably some of the best the best thing that you can create for people right now. 

Laura Todd:
Absolutely. And I just kind of one closing point, I think the big piece that COVID has has challenged as well is a big thing with office dynamics is you look at kind of impact versus intent. And so when you're emailing or you're instant messaging all the time, I know I can speak for myself. You're very direct. Your emails don't have small talk in them. They don't have that quick chat walking by somebody's office. And so I think sometimes you lose a little bit of your personability that you wouldn't necessarily have lost if you were in the office. And so that's been another challenge navigating that I think people naturally get better at. They'll find better ways to interact virtually. And they'll be more intentional kind of when they are chatting with people and just trying to remember that, hey, there's a there's a person behind there. And we've got to take a step back and always remember that when we're sitting in front of a screen. 

Christine Laperriere:
It's true. And even, you know, again, going back to your team building piece, like when you're trying to deal with conflict, if we're dealing with it over email and or the only time that you have a Zoom meeting is because there's something difficult. It can be, again, very, very tough for people to actually navigate tough conversations. But if you've more recently had a laugh, a giggle, a joke, you can start those tough conversations with like, by the way, that was the best cat drawing I've ever seen. And, you know, warm up the room a little bit and again, feel like you've got some relatability and then you can kind of tackle a tough conversation with a little more emotional intelligence. Right. 

Laura Todd:
Absolutely. Yeah. And it's and it's a lot easier when you can just walk by somebody's office and pop your head in. And so it's just remembering how to do that when that's not your opportunity. 

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing. Laura, anything else you want to add as we bring this to close? 

Laura Todd:
No way. I think just thank you for the resource that you've provided. I think it's going to be kind of invaluable to those who are looking to further their leadership skills. And I hope it gets shared with more people so that we can continue to hear everybody else's different perspectives and experiences. 

Christine Laperriere:
Absolutely. It's my pleasure. And this is truly passionate, like a passion project for me. I'm not kidding when I say that when I see the opportunity to interview people like you about your stories, I you know, it makes my day. It fires me up. So it's just fun to do something that naturally is quite enjoyable for me selfishly. Yeah. And then it also happens to be a great resource for you. And so, like I said, that's that's the magic at the win all the way around. 

Laura Todd:
Perfect. Well, thank you so much for having me on. And I appreciate all that you're doing. 

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing. Thank you. If you want to hear more, join me at ChristineLeperrier.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 28
Title: Harnessing innovation as a cultural priority
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Bea Lozinski

Christine Laperriere:
Welcome to the Best Boss Ever podcast.
I'm your host, Christine Laperriere, president of Leader in Motion.
On this show, we're gonna gossip about the best boss you ever had.
We're gonna hear stories about things that they did that helped you feel valued, helped you feel engaged, and really inspired you.
We wanna hear about the bosses that changed the way you look at everything.
If you wanna hear more, join me at christinelaperriere.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.

Welcome back to the Best Boss Ever podcast.
I'm your host, Christine Laperriere, and today I have Bea Lozinski with me from Magna.
I always invite guests that I either really admire their leadership or I look up to them or I've had some really great interaction with them and I've had the opportunity to work with Bea on an event at Magna and I just really admired her leadership.
I could see her style was very magnetizing.
So I'm thrilled that you joined me, Bea, and I will hand it over to you to do a quick introduction.

Bea Lozinski:
Thank you, Christine.
Hi everybody, my name is Bea Lozinski.
I'm Vice President of Talent and Total Rewards at Magna.
I've been here five years, but prior to Magna, I actually came from the mining industry.
I was in the mining industry for 15 years and prior to that, I spent a tour in the software industry.
So I am very fortunate over the course of my career that I've had some wonderful leaders that I've worked for and worked with that have made a significant impression on me and my career.

Christine Laperriere:
That's amazing.
It's so fun to have you here.
So I'm gonna dive into our famous question.
When you look back, I mean, you've covered now automotive mining software.
That's a pretty big reach.
When you think back to the leaders that you'd call maybe your best bosses ever, just tell us a bit about who they are and why you would call them that

Bea Lozinski:
You know, like I said, I'm fortunate.
So it kind of, you have this flash of all these different faces coming up, but it may be the best way for me to start is when I think of the people that I've had exposure to or worked for, there was things specifically that really stood out for me about them.
And I think impressed me and engaged me.
First and foremost, I think they were very good at engaging their employees and galvanizing them to drive business strategies, to create a work environment that would attract and retain the best people possible.
I think the second thing is they were very good at driving results.
And I think that was very influential for me because I remember, you know, as I started out my career, I was probably a little less focused and more exploratory than I am these days.
So it was great to watch people in action and how they actually drove results for company.
The third thing I would say is they were really good at making decisions in a timely manner.
You know, I think one of the things people find really frustrating with leaders is that there's too much, you know, oh, we've got to, which is frustrating because you've got a bunch of people sitting there waiting to figure out what are we supposed to do?
You know, how do we make the business better?
So that's probably the third area.
And then I think most importantly, and this is probably still rings true today, is the ones who really focus on innovation and stretching the way you think and the way you look at the world.
And so when you ask me, well, you know, does anyone stand out for you?
Yeah, there's one person that stands out for me.
I think he stands out for all the people that work for him because we're all still, you know, fairly tight-knit community.
But I worked back in the 90s, I worked for a small software startup.
It was a Dutch-based company and it was owned by two brothers.
And he was such an, the CEO, his name's Jan Van, he was such an inspiring individual.
I mean, this was a gentleman who worked for years in the construction industry.
And when his company went south, all he had left, he told us, was his mainframes.
So he decided to take advantage of keeping them and do something, you know, with software.
And it's interesting when he used to, like, storytell because it was amazing how he would sort of capture our imaginations and just, you know, engage us in his journey and was very, you know, I think focused on helping us figure out our journeys because of what he had been through.
So, I mean, that's a tall order for someone who's trying to run a company, build a startup, ramp us up really quickly.
But he did an outstanding job.
I think the other thing, when I think about him, that stands out, and I still keep in touch with him to this day when I see him post things on LinkedIn, one of the most authentic people I have ever met.
You know, he was very driven to be successful, but not at the expense of others.
I think he was one of these people that wanted to, you know, capture the hearts and minds of his employees and bring them along on the journey.
And I mean, you know, he always drove, you know, this motto that, you know, his success is our success, not just his, which I think everyone appreciated.
But one of the other things that I think everybody loved about him are the culture we had in that organization.
I can honestly say I've never experienced since then.
And we had a motto or there's sort of the three values that drove everything that we did in that organization.
First one being taking initiative.
Second was operating with integrity.
And the third was innovation, which was the three like innovate, innovate, innovate.
And I remember one time being in his office, you know, fairly, I think that was only there a couple of years, and we were sort of growing the market in North America.
And I remember he called me and he said, you know, you're doing a good job, got like really good feedback on the projects that you've been working on, because I was the project manager at the time.
So I said, well, I'm really glad.
And I was so eager because, you know, my mind was like, well, you know, I know this business is coming up.
I wouldn't mind being the project manager on that.
And here's what I think I'd like to do.
And, you know, he was like, okay, B, you got to slow down.
He said, I want you to do a great job.
He goes, but that's not the reason that I wanted to talk to you.
And I'm thinking to myself, okay, what did you want to talk to me about?
So he asked me, he goes, what do you think is your biggest value to our organization?
And I was thinking in terms of, oh, it's my technical knowledge, it's my ability to deliver projects.
And he said to me, no, he goes, your biggest value to the company is your ability to dream and innovate.
He goes, because you're seeing things out there.
He goes that we who are in offices are never going to be able to see.
He goes, so I want to absorb as much as I can from you, you know, and understand sort of what you're seeing and what your perspective is, because that will help us with, you know, future plans for software.
And I was actually so surprised because I thought, geez, you know, I didn't even think you cared about what I thought.
I was more like, I just thought you cared about my delivering projects and making sure that I did them within scope, schedule, and budget.
But he was very, very unique that way.
And I mean, you know, they, the other thing, talk about developing people.
When I worked for that organization, I worked on some of the largest client base that they had, which I think for him was somewhat taking a bit of a risk, because it wasn't like I was an expert in the software industry, but I had good common sense and I had some pretty good business skills because of the jobs I'd done prior to getting into this industry.
But, you know, he was so focused on making sure we were getting, you know, development opportunities and moving through the ranks.
And at one point, he actually appointed a female CEO, which was a big turning point for the company.
But, you know, when I look back, I started with that organization.
I was employee number six, you know, by the time, yeah, and it was three, under three million in revenue.
And by the time I left, it was, you know, I was there like eight years.
I probably would have stayed there the rest of my life if things hadn't changed for the company.
But, you know, it was like, what, eight years, almost a billion dollars in revenue, which was quite a bit back in that, yeah, for how fast it happened.
It's a big company.
Yeah, well, Ian, you know what the thing is, we IPO'd the company in, what, three years.
I mean, just having all those experiences, like, you know, at that stage in my career, and in such a short time, you normally don't get that type of exposure of someone, you know, who's gonna sort of take an interest in his employees.
And it's true.
When the company's small, you get to do that.
As a company gets larger, it's a little bit more difficult.
But I think the thing that's important is, you know, you have to stay focused on, you know, developing your people, engaging your people, and I would say, you know, foremost, making sure that you have a culture that, you know, retains them and they wanna be a part of.

Christine Laperriere:
I love this example, though.
I mean, I'm thinking about the CEO that you worked for, and you were talking about, you know, innovation.
Tell me, what does it look like when you work for a company that, I mean, I hear, first of all, I absolutely loved the conversation that he had with you about what's your real value.
Like, what a mind shift right there, right?
For you personally thinking, what is my value here, right?
But then also, like, tell me more, like, what does it look like when you're working for a company that is able to really harness innovation as a cultural priority?


Bea Lozinski:
Yeah, well, I think back then, I would have said one of the things that was very interesting to me about how they went about doing this.
I mean, we had hierarchies in terms of operating, you know, how we ran the business.
But when it came to solving problems or thinking about the next wave of what we were gonna put in our software, the organization was extremely flat, like, and very networked.
So, you know, and we got so good at self-organizing, which is fascinating that this was in the 90s.
Yeah, because you just worked with people that loved working together.
And so, you know, if there was an issue about, well, we're thinking about doing this for this industry, because we started to split our software into industry solutions.
I mean, everyone knew, okay, go talk to her.
You know, this person about product design, go talk about this, go get this person.
He'll get you, you know, sort of product marketing intel to do this.
Talk to these people about, who've done the implementation work and have seen, you know, the pain out there.
Bring this team all together.
And so we'd have like these, you know, visioning sessions where you'd come in and it's, and you know, here's the business issue that we're trying to resolve.
You know, these are some of the key challenges.
What do we need to do together, you know, to figure out how we're gonna solve this?
So it wasn't just, you know, software developers and product people.
It was like an array of people from, you know, like a good cross section of the organization.
And, you know, I mean, although I think we had like a methodology for how we would do this, the innovation was in the fact that, you know, when people shared ideas, there was no judgment, no criticism.
Like nothing was, you know, taboo.
Yeah, everybody really appreciated everybody's input.
And I think even when the ideas were far out, you know, rather than someone telling you, but stupid and making you feel bad.
We all kind of, you know, poke fun at ourselves and people would laugh.
It would be like, yeah, I guess that is kind of, you know, probably not gonna work.
Okay, move on, let's go, you know.
And that was interesting was that when we got to the end of making a decision or a recommendation about something, you know, everyone stacked hands on the document and it would be, okay, if it fails, we're all taking accountability.
If it, you know, winds up lending well and we're gonna proceed, then it's shared, you know, recognition and reward, which I think is, you know, part of the, I would say the roots of what made that company so great.
You know, people just knew how to work together and how to kind of push forward.
But I mean, I don't, I can't remember in my work history that I ever had fun to the degree that I did when I was working there.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
And what I'm hearing too, it's just interesting when you're talking about the organization being flat, I just hear kind of the evaporation of silos.

Bea Lozinski:
Oh yeah.

Christine Laperriere:
Like, which is really actually one of the biggest challenges in the world of innovation is like we throw things back and forth over the wall, which really isn't innovation.

Bea Lozinski:
No, no, that's more, I would say that sounds a little bit more like strategic execution sometimes, you know, cause you're kind of passing the baton.
In this case, it's almost like baking a cake where everyone's throwing in the ingredients and stirring the batter together.
Yeah, it makes a big difference.
But you know, the funny part is when I think back, I mean, I worked with a team probably of in North America, I would say my inner team was probably, my network was probably a couple of hundred people that I used to interface with regularly.
And I haven't worked for that company in over 20 years.
I would say our network and our sort of appreciation for each other is as strong today as it was back then when we were working together, we all keep in touch.
They're a group of people that I can honestly say if I have a business issue or a challenge that I haven't had before, because I know what many of them are doing, I can easily pick up the phone and say, hey, I have a problem, can you help me out with this?
And everybody does.
And I don't know too many companies that leave that kind of a mark on you professionally as well as personally.

Christine Laperriere:
Right, I think that's pretty special actually to say, you know, this is like a family that you still keep in touch with, right?

Bea Lozinski:
Yeah, I mean, you know, it's a family, it's part of your network.
I think it's interesting because a lot of the people I've worked with have since retired and some are doing freelance work.
But, you know, it's interesting when we get together, when we start talking about sort of some of the challenges that we deal with professionally now, like we automatically still go into brainstorming mode in terms of, you know, well, how would you handle that?
Oh geez, have you seen that before?
Like, what do you think, you know?
And it's just a really nice network of people to have in your environment professionally.

Christine Laperriere:
So how did the organization get that, you know, how did you guys learn that?
Like, was that happening between those two brothers that were at the top of the organization?
Who led that?

Bea Lozinski:
Well, I- Because you were young, right?

Christine Laperriere:
How did you know to do that?

Bea Lozinski:
Yeah, well, I was, yeah, I mean, based on where I am today, yes, I was young.

Christine Laperriere:
It's okay.

Bea Lozinski:
It's okay.
It was 20 years ago.
For those of you that can't see us- 20 years younger than you are today.
Yes, exactly, of course.
No, it was, I think they led by example.
I think they demonstrated the behaviors.
And I would say in the early days, they were very much engaged with, you know, showing us and talking to us about how they wanted the company to operate.
They had a very low tolerance policy for, I'll call it, you know, bad behavior or people that didn't align with the values of the company.
I mean, in a company like that, you wouldn't have lasted long.
You probably would have self-selected before they would fire you.
They would never have that kind of company.
But yeah, they did a really good job.
I can remember, you know, we'd have team meetings and he did this too at a lot of the industry presentations he used to do.
You could tell his passion by the way he talked.
So, I mean, you know, that engaged you to begin with.
But I can remember where he'd be showing, you know, different parts of the software on the screen and he would take this pen and start writing on the software.
And I'm like going, geez, I'm pretty good with technology.
So are half of us.
And we're all kind of leaning over, you know, there's a row of chairs and we're sitting and watching him in action and going, oh my God, like, look, like, you know, he's talking, he's writing.
He's like so passionate about what he's doing.
But that was what he brought to the table and I think taught us all how to do.
It's like, where's your passion?
You know, let's talk about where we wanna be taking this product.
Gave all of us a voice.
Never once did I ever hear him say, oh, that's stupid or that's a bad idea.
Nothing, like none of that, you know?
It was just really inspiring and empowering I think are the two words I would probably use.

Christine Laperriere:
Nice.
So I always love to ask, what's the business impact of having a best boss?
Because obviously in my world, I'm always being challenged with if I spend money on my leaders, what's the return on investment?
So I'm curious, could, I mean, I heard that they grew phenomenally in that eight years.

Bea Lozinski:
Yeah, I would say the big one is you will find people will galvanize and really push themselves to do their best for the organization.
Cause they know if they do their best for the organization, that's probably gonna mean good things for them.
You know, whether it's, you know, compensatory, whether it's, you know, professionally, moving your career through the ranks.
Like I started, as I said, when I started with them, I was doing training and project management.
You know, I wound up being the VP of consulting by the time I was finished my tour there, you know, I'd spent time in Europe.
I lived in the Netherlands for a couple of years.
Like it was just a phenomenal experience.
So I would say, you know, when you talk about the return, probably three things, you know, from results and performance, our revenue, we had exponential growth very, very quickly, you know, which allowed us to IPO in three years, which is fairly fast for an IPO.
The second thing I would say is our turnover was very low and we had a very strong employer brand.
And you know, at that, back in that day, we were sort of one, it was like, you know, SAP, Oracle and Bond were the three sort of big enterprise players.
And we never had problems attracting people.
We never had, we had very low turnover for the most part, but we always had good leaders.
Like, I mean, I even found, you know, when Jan sort of stepped aside and wasn't the CEO, he brought on in this woman, Amal Johnson, similar characteristics, very well accomplished, extremely good leadership skills.
Like, she was pretty amazing.
I mean, you can imagine, like back then, you know, nobody talked about, you know, diversity and inclusion.
It would have been, yeah, early to the table.
Exactly, to bring a woman CEO in, but she was so well liked and respected.
Everybody just thought the world of her and, you know, everybody gave it, you know, their best and it showed.
So I think that was the second thing that I would say.
And then I would say generally, the leadership brand of that company, like permeated down, you know, so everybody knew this is what was expected.
And I can remember, you know, when I went to Europe, they actually asked me to be part of starting up a business IT school.
Cause back then, you know, software was taking off, but the availability of people to actually, you know, consult and support this stuff was quite low.
So we opened up this sort of Academy in Europe and this beautiful like castle or chateau thing in the Netherlands.
It was great.
Oh yeah, yeah.
It was really quite interesting.
And so we'd bring people over for a 10 week accelerator program so that they could go out where they learned the product, also learned some really good consulting skills and then go back out, whether it was, you know, our company or a partner of our company and go and do the consulting.
And I remember when I was actually facilitating some of the stuff and I kind of did the overall coordination for selecting the people to come in and I used to facilitate that.
And every time people left the program, you know, the one impression that was always made upon them was just how fantastic all the leaders were, you know, that they actually cared about their progress, that they actually cared about, you know, where they were gonna work and help facilitate, you know, a smooth transition and that they were great like teachers.
But, you know, we were, you know, back in those days, like, you know, you'd do your job during the day and when you had a program like this, you'd spend as much time as you could outside of work socializing with these people to kind of get to know who they are, get to know, you know, their backgrounds and their stories because in that organization, you know, it was felt as being a beneficial thing for helping them figure out, you know, sort of their path through the company.
Those are, you know, some of the things that I would say for me from a, and you know, there's like quantitative and qualitative, but at the end of the day, you know, the numbers will only happen if the other things, you know, are there as a foundation to make the company successful.
Actually, I don't think that's changed over all the different jobs that I've had.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, that's consistent across the board.

Bea Lozinski:
Yeah, it is, it is.
And you see it in a lot of companies.
I mean, I've worked for some companies where, you know, we had great leadership and then there was a change at the top because the board decided that's what they wanted.
And the pendulum shift was, I think, more than the company could handle.
And so you'd start to see, you know, people turning over like self-select believing, and then you start to see, you know, the trickle-down effect of that, you know?
And so I think for most leaders, you know, coming into those types of senior roles now, you know, you need to be, I mean, you have to sort of change your leadership style far more than, you know, you had to in the past, I'd say.

Christine Laperriere:
Right, right.

Bea Lozinski:
And I don't know, I'm not always sure that I think people understand that.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, no, it's a big, it's a moving target right now.
We have a lot of, these generations have very different upbringings and expectations.
And, you know, again, it's a massive time of change, right?

Bea Lozinski:
Yeah, well, I think, you know, I mean, when I look at sort of some of the challenges I'm dealing with now, because, you know, I've had, honestly, I've had quite a few people exit the organization, you know, they're looking for something different, you know, and I think, you know, given the fact that everyone's working remote now, and I mean, there's some, for automotive, there's some big challenges in terms of, you know, competing with some of these other companies.
But, you know, when you kind of listen to what people say at the end of the day, you know, whether it's this industry or any other industry, because I read the research, I'm sure like you do and many others do, you know, I think we're coming back to this world where, you know, employees really want to align with the values of the company, work for a culture that appreciates them and makes them feel like they're valued, you know, not just remains to an end.
I think, you know, they wanna have a voice and know that their voice is being heard and that they have input in terms of whatever their span of control is.
This is not a generation that's like, you know, tell me what the task is and I'll get it done.
This is a generation who really wants to understand why am I doing this?
What value does it add?
And then I'll tell you whether I wanna do it or not.
You know, so it's been an interesting shift from that perspective.
But yeah, these things are, I think, a big challenge for leaders nowadays.

Christine Laperriere:
Last question for you, maybe second to last, we'll see how we do on time.
But when you think of things, not maybe your worst boss ever, but what you would say is a criteria or something that you could see just repelled people and really didn't work, right?
Like in your career, I mean, you've been obviously into so many different industries.
If you had to nail down one or two things that you know are probably the worst boss ever traits, what would you say?

Bea Lozinski:
I haven't had too many.
I've had a couple that probably stand out for me.
One earlier in my career and one later on, let's say, I wouldn't say quite midpoint, but you know, a little bit later on.
And I think there's two things that they had in common that for me just, I would say disappointing and to some degree, you know, even devastating, especially when you're younger in your career.
But I would say those that sort of had their own agenda, I think in some cases, the ones that are demoralizing and treat people in a way that's inappropriate.
I mean, I've always believed, if you want people to treat you well, how you treat them is gonna be a reflection of what they're gonna do for you and how they're gonna treat you.
And I think in both the instances that I mentioned, I would say these two individuals didn't really care what their employees thought of them, didn't really care how they felt.
It was more about like getting the job done and you know, how do I maneuver my way through this organization?
You know, what do I need to get accomplished in order to move ahead?
And I would say they had their own interests ahead of the people that work for them, which I don't think you can do and be successful.
So yeah, those are probably qualities that I would say, you know, I would stay away from.

Christine Laperriere:
After you left that company, what happened?

Bea Lozinski:
So, you know, it was really tough because, you know, I spent eight, nine years working for, you know, a set of leaders that operated in a certain way.
And then I came out and the next job I took, you know, I had a bar, an expectation of the leaders that was so high based on what I experienced.
And the most of the people that were leading, their bar was much lower.
And for me, that was such a shock and such an adjustment because it was like, okay, I either have to meet them halfway and can I deal with that?
Like, can I not get frustrated?
Can I learn to accept those leaders for who they are?
And I think I tried, but you know, I was always one of these people, you know, that pushed, it's like, if you want 150% from me, then I should at least be able to expect 100 or 110% from you.
And I think for some, it was a real stretch.
And because I'm pretty tenacious, I think some people used to get really frustrated, you know, and others were like, yeah, you know, I didn't like when you were like that, but you know, it actually wasn't a bad thing for me.
So, you know, it's tough, like when you start to realize those things, because it's then, you know, how do you pivot?
And you don't wanna be just hopping from job to job because that's not gonna be good for you professionally long-term.
But yeah, it was a challenge, I will say.

Christine Laperriere:
I think having a high bar in leadership is, it's a good thing, but it sounds like it also poses a bit of a problem at times.

Bea Lozinski:
Yeah, I mean, you know, I think over time, I started to learn to lower my bar.
And I think what most of us figured out was that we probably won't experience something like that again.
You know, but the good thing was we all had each other to sort of pick up the phone and say, okay, how do you handle this?
You know, cause some of the people that I knew and worked with, I would say they were probably back then a little more politically savvier than I was.
So it was good to have them as mentors, you know, to lean on to help me sort of weather that.
And look, you know, I think when you start your career and you're growing your career, would I say I was the world's best leader all the time?
Yeah, you know, it's people do experience that stuff and it's very real and it definitely impacts their ability to perform.
Dust yourself off and get back on the horse.
But I think, you know, when I look at the people I've been, I've influenced most heavily and how successful they've become, I'm like, okay, I must've got it right somewhere along the way.
Because normally when people ask me to describe myself when I'm interviewing them, I tell them all the time, yeah, I think if you talk to most people that work for me, they tell you I'm tough, but I'm fair.
And that I do care about people in general.
But you know, I think I sort of followed that approach because what I started to realize was most of the people that worked for me as years passed, they actually were really successful.
Some even exceeded, you know, my level of success, which I'm really proud of because I'm happy for.
You know, and to me that's a mark of, you know, how well did I do when you talk about metrics, you know, how do you metric your own leadership like results?
And so it's not just what you do for the companies that you work for, but it's those people that worked for you and really, you know, gave it their all did they get the right return?
And I would like to think in most cases, the people that worked for me that I invested in and they invested in me, yeah, they've done really well.
So it's a good thing.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, yeah.
And it is, that's a great metric of, you know, the impact that you're making, you know, above and beyond the results, right?
To me that's, and even if you get out of bed one day and you have to reflect on your career and like, you know, did you matter?
I feel like you mattered to all those people.

Bea Lozinski:
Yeah, yeah, yeah, I agree.
And I think, you know, if you're not thinking like that, then I would say, I don't know, maybe you'll miss out something in life, you know, that will be billing for you.
Cause I know when I decide, you know, I'm done professionally, I'm not gonna look at all the numbers and the things that I did and how many projects that got successful and you know, how much service right over you did I generate or, you know, how much trading dollars did I save a company or any of that?
I mean, that's all great stuff, but it's a snapshot in time.
The thing that endures and that's over the whole course of your career is, you know, the people that you impacted, did you leave a leadership legacy to be proud of?
Do people, have their lives been better or enriched or have their careers been better enriched by working for you or having a relationship with you?
That to me is I think more important than the other stuff.

Christine Laperriere:
Well, I think that is a perfect close.
So I'm gonna just say thank you so much.
That was a fantastic interview.
I'm very sure you've made that impact.
I can tell just seeing people around you.
So like I said, this was fantastic and we're so glad that you came out and shared your story today.

Bea Lozinski:
Thanks very much for having me, Christine.
I appreciate it.

Christine Laperriere:
If you wanna hear more, join me at christinelaperrier.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 29
Title: Pretend you have done this 100 times
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Omnia Helba

Christine Laperriere:
I'm your host, Christine Laperriere, and with me today, I have Omnia Helba.
Thank you, Omnia, for joining me.

Omnia Helba:
Thanks for having me, Christine.

Christine Laperriere:
So really quick, before we get started, just give a 30-second introduction, Omnia, so everybody knows who you are.

Omnia Helba:
Sure.
My name is Omnia Helba, and I have worked in talent and organizational development for the last approximately 15 years.
I'm currently with the Ministry of Attorney General and leading a high-performing team focused on all things people-centered.

Christine Laperriere:
And I was so glad to invite you onto the show because we had the opportunity to work together on diversity, inclusion, and equity at Sobeys.
And so we actually got a chance to do some great work there together.
And I genuinely enjoyed working with you.
So it was great to reach out and invite you onto the show.
Thank you.
I'm going to just dive in.
Who is your best boss ever and why?
Tell us.

Omnia Helba:
OK, so I'm going to tackle this one a little bit differently.
Christine, because I've had a lot of really great bosses and I have to really talk about what the theme has been throughout my entire career.
And I'll say that the best bosses I've had have just had this unwavering trust in me and in my ability before I did, truthfully.
So they're the ones who really saw my potential and trusted me to bring it out.
Early on in my career, quite frankly, I probably wasn't actually that confident.
So when I think about my very first real job opportunity after completing my master's, it was at the YWCA with a great woman named Denise Doyle, who just loves to empower women.
And I was so nervous, I'd never facilitated anything before.
And I was about to facilitate something to the leadership team.
And she said to me, you know what, Omnia, you've never done this before.
She said, I know that and you know that, but no one else knows that.
And she was like, so just go out there and pretend you've done this a hundred times.
And it's exactly what I did.
And nobody could tell.
And it was just it was so empowering.
Like it was just in, you know, you're fresh out of school, 23 years old.
And it was just such an awesome experience.
And that's been the theme throughout my career.
And I would say, like, I'm happy to share more examples.
But I would say that that was kind of the the first opportunity I had to see what it was like to really have a great boss.

Christine Laperriere:
So what did that do for your confidence?

Omnia Helba:
It skyrocketed like Christine.
She that's what I was saying.
She believed in me before I believed in myself.
And I just think that that to me spoke volumes about the impact a leader can have on their employee.
You really are in a position where you can make your employee feel that, you know, sky's the limit.
They've got all this potential.
Or she could have turned around and said, OK, maybe you're not ready for this yet.
Let me do this.
Right.
And I've seen bosses do that as well.
And just by choosing that approach to take the risk on me.
And I mean, it was obviously a minor risk, but, you know, she took the risk.
She said, it's fine.
Worst case scenario, you mess this up.
It's OK.
Nothing.
You know, the world's not going to end.
And it did.
It really helped to boost my confidence, for sure.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.

Omnia Helba:
And she gave you all that power at 23 years old.

Christine Laperriere:
She did.

Omnia Helba:
She saw something I didn't, clearly.
But I'm so grateful to her for it.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.

Omnia Helba:
And then so you said there's a theme and there's numerous bosses that have done similar things.
So tell me more about those.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah.

Omnia Helba:
So when I went over to Walmart, I had a boss named Stephanie Hardman.
And she was over.
She's over at McDonald's now leading their HR function.
And we went into it.
We were going into a meeting.
I was going to present employee engagement results to the chief operating officer.
My understanding is that she would present it.
I'd be there in case he had questions.
Again, not very senior in my career.
And we're sitting outside his office and she turns to me and she says, you know what, Amia, you've got this.
And I stopped.
I was like, got what?
She was like, you have this.
She's like, you're going to present this and I'll be there in case you need me.
And at this point, I'm obviously so nervous.
I barely had any meetings with this individual.
We walk in and I presented it.
It went extremely well.
You know, and she was just she was literally just sitting there in case I needed her.
And again, she trusted me before I trusted myself.
And it just it helped me go into that meeting with full confidence that I could do it.
And after that, I mean, I could present in front of anyone at any time and never be nervous again.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Omnia Helba:
Because the stakes were so high.

Christine Laperriere:
I think that's great because and I'll even just share personally, when I get really nervous and I'm going in front of a big group or I'm going to a big meeting, I use the mantra, you've got this.
I don't know where I got it from.
Somebody said it one time and I thought, what a great confidence boosting mantra.
And so sometimes I'll feel myself.
I'm like, my palms are sweaty and I feel kind of sick to my stomach because I'm getting ready to do, you know, a big speech or I'm getting ready to kick off a big program.
And I'll just keep telling myself, listen, you got this.
Like, this is not, you know, this is not the last day of your career.
As we know it.

Omnia Helba:
Right.
It's like we got this.
You know, I mean, those are the stories we tell ourselves.
Right.
And when you have a boss that's helping you realize those stories that you tell yourself about your own ability, I mean, that's life changing.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
And somebody's validating that to you, which is so powerful.
And they're putting that faith in you.
OK, so those are good ones.
Keep going.
What else do you have?

Omnia Helba:
Yeah.
Well, let me share one you actually know.
So Heather de Blas over at Sobey's, by far one of my favorite bosses, like just a phenomenal, phenomenal leader.
You know, when I started with her, we were kind of building equity, diversity, inclusion from the ground up at Sobey's.
It was, you know, brand new function.
It wasn't side of desk.
It was an actual team.
She gave me full creative power.
You know, she said, you know, help me design this from start to finish.
I told her I really love strategy.
She said, great, let me get you involved in the strategy, building of a strategy, said, you know, I really love facilitation.
She said, great, I'm going to put you right in there with facilitation and facilitating sessions.
I really love working with women.
Great.
We're going to build, you know, the first women's employee resource group for Sobey's and you can lead that work.
And so she really said I could design my dream job.
She really gave me full bandwidth to do exactly what I wanted to do.
And she believed that I could do it again.
It was just that trust that I told her I like to do something.
I told her I was good at it and she just trusted me.
She said, great, let's do it without making me second guess myself.
And just, you know, I think that, again, just brings out so much out of an employee where they feel like, you know what, I can go to work every day, I can feel confident, I can feel happy and I can do what I want to do.
Right.
And it's rare.
It's rare to find bosses like that.
I've been fortunate that I've had, you know, a few of them.
But those, I would say, are probably the ones that are the highlights of my career.
Excellent.
And I just hear this reoccurring theme, like you said, this unwavering trust for people extending the trust before you knew for sure you could do it or before you were proven yet.

Christine Laperriere:
Yes.
You know, I really I think that's important because that's a different flavor to trust.
That's not just I trust you can get the job done.
All right.
You know what I mean?
It's not just I know you're not going to, you know, throw me under the bus.
That's a different type of trust.
It's almost like I'm going to I'm going to throw you enough rope that I'm, you know, and I know you're going to succeed.
I'm going to help you swim.

Omnia Helba:
No, it's true.
And you know what, Christine, as a woman in hijab, I mean, I'm I'm very visibly different.
Right.
And it's not often that individuals from marginalized communities find sponsors in their career, especially so early on.
Right.
It's like so many individuals that I know have had to prove themselves time and time and time and time again before they're finally given opportunity.
And I would say that, you know, I'm fortunate.
It's definitely a privilege of mine that I haven't had to experience that multiple times in my career.
But these individuals knew they knew I was up against something different and they really wanted to make sure I was successful.
And just by being there and being so supportive, you know, it helped remove a lot of roadblocks for me.
Right.
They gave me that executive access.
They gave me the sponsorship.
They spoke highly of me behind closed doors and rooms where there was likely no one who looked like me.
And that was really powerful as well.

Christine Laperriere:
What is it like to work for these large organizations and probably not see a lot of people that look like you?

Omnia Helba:
You know, I would say early on in my career, it probably bothered me a little bit more.
You know, not seeing myself reflected in leadership was certainly a bit of a glass ceiling, like more than a glass ceiling.
You just couldn't see myself ever getting there.
You know, and I wanted to get there.
Like I was driven from my first job that I wanted to one day just be a really, you know, senior executive and not seeing that was definitely a flag to me to say, probably not going to get there.
Right.
That's kind of the message that was being sent to me.
I would say as I kind of grew more in myself and in my own confidence and my own capabilities, I stopped relying on that mindset.
I shifted towards, well, you know what?
I'll just be the first.
I'll be the first and I'll pave the way for others.
Right.
And I'm not the first.
And I'm so thankful now that there are more people who look like me in leadership.
And I'm so happy that that, you know, that's not going to be hopefully the same experience for others.
But, you know, for me, it was it was a shift to just say, OK, well, I'm going to have to make it through.
And again, if I didn't have those bosses, I didn't have those, you know, fantastic leaders.
I don't think I would have ever gotten to a point where I said, OK, I'll be the first.
Right.
Like they gave me that confidence, truthfully.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
That's powerful.
When you reach those senior executive levels, what are some of the things that you'll advocate for to make sure that people like you coming into an organization feel valued and acknowledged like what would be some of the things that you can think of given your experience?

Omnia Helba:
So there's a few challenges.
That's a kind of a bit of a, you know, peel the onion kind of question because there's lots of layers involved.
So one, I think just even that redistribution of power and having individuals who are marginalized in those senior leadership positions already does something without actually having to act.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Omnia Helba:
So that's the first step, I think, is representation and that shift of power to individuals.
I think for me, and it's something I've always done throughout my career.
Anyway, it's also about giving people opportunity, right?
Opening the doors for them, seeing the roadblocks and removing them for individuals, extending the hand sponsorship.
Sponsorship is so huge, Christine, like I can't even emphasize how much more powerful it is even than mentorship.
Mentorship is great for a personal development piece, but that sponsorship to get people up the corporate ladder is just something else.
You know, and we want to pretend it doesn't exist.
We want to pretend that it only, you know, people move up just based on merit.
But the reality is, if people don't know who you are, you're probably not going to get that opportunity.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Omnia Helba:
So that's a big one as well.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Omnia Helba:
And then, of course, the mentorship, we've just launched a mentorship program where I am now for Black, Indigenous and racialized individuals in their career.
And more than just career coaching, it's also about that shared experience, like, you know, hearing from leaders how they got through some challenges.
And I just think that that has been powerful.
I'm mentoring someone now.
And, you know, she hasn't come to me a whole lot with, you know, your typical career questions, but more so of those challenges that she's facing and trying to get through.
And, you know, that's I think that's very enriching as well.

Christine Laperriere:
Excellent.
Thank you so much for letting me pick your brain on that.

Omnia Helba:
Yeah, of course.

Christine Laperriere:
And so I'm going to ask you one more question.
I know you had a child during COVID.
And so now you have a very large family of four children.
Tell me a little bit about what it is like to be a woman with such a large family, also trying to navigate a career.

Omnia Helba:
Yeah, it's tough.
Well, you know, add COVID and kids being home and online schooling and all of that fun stuff and getting home sent home for two weeks at a time.
It's been extremely difficult, Christine.
I'm not going to sugarcoat it.
It's probably been two of the hardest years of my life.
I also did start a new job with another fantastic boss, Naila Ibrahim.
And her support has been just incredible in terms of that flexibility to say, listen, I need to do pick up today for the kids.
I'm going to be offline from this time to this time.
You know, this kid's got a doctor's appointment.
I've got to go and I'll be back.
Right.
And just I think that recognition of being human.
And I think that's something we all need to do for one another right now is just recognize we're all just human and struggling is huge.
You know, as a woman as well, I would say for me, my husband and I are really good partners.
He's just, you know, he takes on a lot of load, a lot of the caregiver load.
And I was reflecting on that earlier today.
And I thought, you know, as a child growing up, my mom played, I would say, 100 percent role of a caregiver.
Right.
And my kids are growing up very differently.
My husband cooks, we share responsibility, we, you know, have to outsource some things.
And so they actually see us kind of as a split caregivers for them.
And I think that's helped quite a bit.
If I didn't have a partner who was so supportive, I don't know that I would have I would have been able to have such a large family and it's something we both wanted.
So, yeah, I think it's that that partnership has been really important.

Christine Laperriere:
That's amazing.
And I mean, from a to me, that's that speaks a lot about just the shifting perception of, you know, how we split responsibility.
You're able to have this great career.
And, you know, like you said, you're in a true partnership.
So that's fantastic.
And then I also think when you see organizations with, again, more moms and dads in the organization, I think it's it's where you start to see leadership, make those decisions to be flexible and supportive and understand that that's that's an important part of enabling somebody to be successful right now.

Omnia Helba:
Yeah.
And I think COVID, I mean, with all of its negativity, the one thing it's done is it's I mean, it's brought our personal lives into our work lives, right?
And we now have integration between the two.

Christine Laperriere:
Oh, yeah, before.
Right.

Omnia Helba:
And now I'm not shy to tell someone, I'm sorry.
I don't I can't meet with you at that time.
I have to do pick up or I'm sorry.
I have to do drop off.
Whereas before, I probably would have been a little more hesitant to do that and would have, you know, just said, I'm sorry.
I have a conflict without openly sharing exactly why I can't make it at that time and in meetings with senior leaders.
And they're on the phone and we're going to go pick up my kid from school or I have to walk my dog at lunch or, you know, and I think it's changed, changed the culture quite a bit in organizations.
Excellent.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, absolutely.
So I'm just going to circle back to one or two more questions on the best boss.
So, you know, we talked about trust, and I appreciate this added element of flexibility in there.
You know, organizations are always asking why should they invest in creating best bosses, right?
Why why put dollars and cents against it?
And I mean, you know, from DEI initiatives, right?
Those are all costly initiatives, right?
So if you could identify what's the impact on the business.
I mean, I know this isn't an easy question, but in your experience, what have you seen as the impact on the business when you have great leadership?

Omnia Helba:
Well, definitely we see engagement levels rise, right?
And we know that engagement leads to productivity and people are more invested in their work.
You're able to get a little bit more of that discretionary effort.
So, you know, you're paying them nine to five, but if something needs to get done and they're highly engaged, they're going to work a little bit extra to get it done.
Right.
So that that I think has a deep dollar value associated with it.
We also see less absenteeism, lower turnover.
Like those are all things that that we've seen studies that demonstrate having a highly engaged workforce will impact.
So, you know, they're not necessarily you're not going to have exact dollar to dollar.
But I think when you have a highly engaged workforce with good bosses and good leadership, you're going to see a lot more productivity.
And that's, I think, the bottom line for a lot of organizations.

Christine Laperriere:
Excellent.
I agree completely.
And so my last question for you is, have you ever had a not so great boss?
You don't have to name them or shame them.
But, you know, what was the impact on that like for you?
Like, what was the impact of their leadership on you and what were some of the things that you could identify that were not great practices?

Omnia Helba:
Yeah, you know, I've been fortunate.
I only have one boss that I didn't enjoy working for.
She just had the complete opposite of my other bosses in terms of lack of flexibility.
This individual experienced what I think was hardship early in their career.
And they didn't extend the olive branch and make it easier on the next person.
They, in fact, made it more difficult by, you know, for example, when I would come in 15 minutes late to work because my kid was sick and I had to do drop off and all these sort of things.
The expectation is I would stay 15 minutes behind, right, to make up for those 15 minutes.
And it was just that micromanagement.
And it really took away any motivation.
I had to do anything above and extra like above and beyond.
And I was fortunate to recognize that that wasn't a workforce that I wanted to be in.
And I left very quickly.
But I know a lot of people don't have the opportunity to leave and go somewhere else.
And they're stuck in situations for me.
It really demonstrated for me what I didn't want to do with my teams.
Right.
And so now when I lead, I think about the whole person.
I think about, you know, what else they have going on in their lives.
And people are going to have good days and bad days.
And they're going to have things that happen in their personal lives that we have to accommodate for.
And it really demonstrated to me what I didn't want.
And so I think it was good.
I think it was good for me to go through it because it made me really appreciate the good passes that I had after.
And I think it also made me a stronger leader because I am so careful not to do what was done to me.

Christine Laperriere:
Oh, I think that's a great answer.
And I hear that a lot.
It's the micromanagement.
It's, you know, to me, focusing on how many minutes you're in the office is just so irrelevant to real productivity and engagement and accomplishment.
You know, like we're not in the industrial age where you're, you know, if you're putting parts on a car, for example, then those 15 minutes matter.
Right.
But if you're.

Omnia Helba:
Yeah.
And I think also just the recognition that people are like, there are times, right, there are times where leaders do need to micromanage more than they want to because individuals simply aren't performing.
And that does happen.
Right.
That should be the exception to the rule and not your main.
That shouldn't be the rule that you apply to everyone.
It should be almost a last resort when you have to performance manage someone.
Unfortunately, I think leaders do the opposite.
They start with the assumption that, you know, employees need to do it.
And then they have to, you know, they have to earn their trust.
And I think that's just a really negative way to build a relationship.

Christine Laperriere:
Very backwards.
Excellent.
And then if you have any final tips, I mean, I have a fantastic audience of people who are out there trying to be excellent leaders.
So share any last words of wisdom or areas of focus that you would encourage people to really think about as they're trying to be their best boss.

Omnia Helba:
I think think about the whole person.
And, you know, we do a lot of this diversity and inclusion work right now.
And we tell people to bring their full selves to work, but then we don't treat them as a whole person.
So for those of us who want to be better leaders, I think we need to think in the context of what else is going on in their lives.
What else might they might they need support with?
What else can I do to facilitate them actually bringing their best selves to work and reaching their potential and also recognizing them?
You know, I didn't talk about that today, but recognition is huge.
And just, you know, it can be as minor as actually thanking your employees for a job well done, you know, but really giving them that recognition and ask them how they want to be recognized, how they prefer to be recognized.
And then I think even just those two things, if you're really focused on those two things, I think you'll have a stronger, more productive team.

Christine Laperriere:
Excellent.
I appreciate it so much.
Again, thank you for your time today.

Omnia Helba:
Thanks so much, Christine.
This was great.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 30
Title: Having a seat at the table
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Stephanie Wolfe

Christine Laperriere:
I'm your host, Christine Laperriere, and this week I have on Stephanie Wolf.
So Steph, thank you for joining me, and I'm just going to say really quick, I invited you onto the show because, first of all, I have an incredible amount of admiration for the work that you're doing as a financial counselor for women in finance, but also that you have now joined BMO Private Wealth.
So your career, you also, you know, you worked at quite a few different financial institutions, and so your career has really, you've moved through a lot of different areas and organizations, and I think you're a great one to talk about this today.

Stephanie Wolfe:
Awesome.
Well, I'm very excited to be here, Christine.

Christine Laperriere:
Anything you wanted to share with the group just as they're getting a chance to know you better?

Stephanie Wolfe:
So yes, as you noted, my career has taken many changes over the last few years.
I am a strategic business leader, entrepreneur, I'm a financial literacy advocate, and formal financial marketing executive.
So really, my passion is for empowering women to invest and really support them as they move through their careers.

Christine Laperriere:
That is why I am one of your biggest fans.
So thank you so much for joining me.
So we're just going to dive in.
I know you're going to answer this in a little bit of a unique way, but who is your best boss ever and why?

Stephanie Wolfe:
Very unique way to answer this because as I reflected on this question, I realized that there wasn't just one boss that I could touch on.
Over the course of my career, there was actually four that really stood out to me.
And the reason there's four is because different parts in my career, I was at different areas of growth.
So each of these leaders really took an opportunity to guide me and coach me in ways that I needed at that particular time in my career.
And so they all have added tremendous value and maybe I'm just lucky or one of the lucky few, but I think I've just had phenomenal leaders to support me on my journey.

Christine Laperriere:
That's amazing.
So this is perfect.
I mean, it's such a good topic that we're going to dive into today around how best bosses, you know, the type of coaching that they give you is very relevant at different ages and stages of your career.
And I think that's kind of an interesting insight that, you know, an aha moment that I'm having, having done so many of these interviews.
So can you walk us through those four different leaders and how they were different?
Take us back to the beginning of your career.

Stephanie Wolfe:
Oh, the very beginning, Linda Watson is her name.
And actually she just recently retired, phenomenal woman in consumer packaged goods led the way for revision as they launched their brand of eyewear around the world.
But Linda was really my first ever boss and she was, I like to call my confidence builder.
She was willing to sort of put me in the positions that I had never, never been in before and she trusted me.
So I remember the very first time actually we were going through a brand and marketing session.
It was my first time meeting with a big group, a big branding marketing group, and I was at the table and I was obviously the youngest one there.
I was probably three months into the job and, you know, they were presenting a very robust brand presentation to Linda and the CEO of this new company in that room.
I'll never forget.
She, she paused and she said, well, I think we haven't heard from everybody as they were getting feedback.
And she said, Stephanie, do you have anything else that you would like to add to this after the presentation was done?
And you know, that asking for my opinion at such a young age and, and ensuring that I had a seat at the table was something that stuck with me and something that I have actually carried forward when I've had younger team members working with me is to give them that confidence that they can speak and they can have a seat at that table and don't hold back.
You might be learning, but everything that you're adding is adding value.

Christine Laperriere:
That's incredible.
And it's such an important piece around inclusion, right?
She didn't decide that your age determined whether or not you were, you had something valid to add.
And I think that is powerful.
That's really demonstrating excellent, inclusive leadership in addition to being a great supporter of yours.

Stephanie Wolfe:
Yeah, absolutely.
I mean, I could have just sat at that table and, you know, stayed quiet and let it, let it pass through, but then I wouldn't have built that growth opportunity there to speak up and learn that I did have a seat at the table.
I was able to speak up.

Christine Laperriere:
I think that's great.
I hear companies hire young kids out of school and they do that because they have this fresh perspective, but then they never asked for that perspective.
So I just appreciate that she was living, living that trait.
So that's excellent.
So after Linda, then what happened?

Stephanie Wolfe:
Well, that's when I transitioned into financial services.
So taking all of those amazing marketing skills that Linda instilled in me, honestly, I had such a great training background with her.
I moved on to Franklin Templeton Investments, where actually I reported to a man called Matthew Snair, Matt Snair, who is actually somebody to this day that I still keep in touch with.
He's fantastic mentor and somebody who I really respected.
You know, Matt, at the time was, and still to this day, he's somebody that I said was a heart centered leader before that term even existed.
And the reason I say that is because there was a particular moment where it had been a really rough week.
It was around the 2008 financial crisis.
Things had really imploded.
People were very emotional, but Matt took the time to speak to everybody on the team.
He put aside everything else just to make sure that we were comfortable.
And I said in this meeting with him, Matt, like, how do you, how do you do this, right?
Like how, how do you put others first like this?
He said, I do it because I care.
And those words stuck with me because it showed that just because you're in this working environment and he's a boss, people have emotions.
We're all human and we've all got challenges.
So he's, he's honestly somebody who showed me how to lead.
And I say this because he said that his job was always to take the stuff from the top and filter it out so that I could focus on my job and not worry.
And that was really important for me to hear as well.
So, I mean, I reported to Matt for several years and that was the biggest leadership skill that he instilled in me was that he was the buffer and his job was to make sure I had the emotional and mental capacity to do my job well.
That's such a good point.
His job is to take the stuff from the top, filter it out so that you don't have to worry and give you, you know, the most relevant information that you need to do the best job without taking, you know, taking on any new worry.
And I think that makes so much sense in 2008.

Christine Laperriere:
I mean, it seemed like anybody working anywhere was filled with worry because nobody knew what was going to happen next.
So I can see why that must've felt stabilizing.

Stephanie Wolfe:
Very stabilizing.
That is the type of leader he is and still somebody who I see as rock solid, honestly, great, a great support over the years.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
Okay.
Wow.
These are two really good ones.
So, okay, you have more?

Stephanie Wolfe:
I do.
I do.

Christine Laperriere:
You are lucky.

Stephanie Wolfe:
And I have been very blessed to have fantastic leaders.
So it's interesting too, because I was thinking there's one other common thread is that many of the environments that I was working in were very entrepreneurial based.
And I wonder if this may have been what gave me the tools that I needed when I launched my own business as well, right?
So, you know, honestly, you asking me this question is really allowed for a lot of reflection and to really think about why I am where I am today and who these leaders are and what they did for me.
So my next great boss ever was Rohit Mehta.
Now he was, I call him the visionary and he was great at challenging me.
And so I was probably more than mid-career at this point on track for my next role, which was executive level, you know, it was a very small company that I was working for with him and we had a very small budget and of course he was, he was a natural salesman.
I was a natural marketer.
And so, you know, he constantly challenged me to think bigger and push me outside of my comfort zone.
And so I loved it.
When I say he was a visionary, he really would, you know, continue.
He saw what I wanted to do, but as a great salesman, he knew what he wanted as well.
And so there was a constant compromise and a lot of learning that happened as I saw how to think bigger with a very smaller company and how, where, where they wanted to go and how could I help them get there in the non-traditional marketing way, right?
What could I add value to as a, as a marketer for this firm to get them to where they wanted to go, really bootstrapping our way there.
So it was a fantastic opportunity to work with Rohit.
He's really good at building businesses and he's a great salesman.
Tell me about that challenging part though.
Help me understand.
What does that look like?
Cause it doesn't sound fun when you say it.
So one of our biggest challenges was to actually communicate to investment advisors, the value of the products that we were offering.
So what I wanted to do was the traditional marketing group, you know, traditional marketing campaigns, but he challenged me to think a little bit more about how can we talk to them directly?
And so where we ended up landing was on a contest that they could participate in and the winner who participated in this would actually be able to have a donation of, I think it was something like $20,000 go to their charity of choice.
So it was something that I would say more Garula type marketing that was kind of from the ground up.
Uh, we really got in with the advisor community.
It was a very smart play and marketing tactic that was obviously not as cost prohibitive as some of the traditional marketing routes that I could have taken.
And so I really appreciated his input in challenging me to continue to think bigger and bigger and what can we do that hasn't been done that will get attention.
And so when I say visionary, he really showed me how entrepreneurs can go big, still make sure that you're within budget.
So I absolutely, I loved working with Rohit.
He was fantastic.
I know he's still doing great things to this day.

Christine Laperriere:
I think that's great.
I mean, again, just to like how much growth comes out of saying, how do we do this in a non-traditional way and to challenge you to get creative and really come out of fresh new ways of thinking.

Stephanie Wolfe:
I think that sounds really like a really neat experience and you don't get asked for that as often in certain environments.
Like I don't hear a lot of leaders challenge, you know, if anything, it's their idea, you know, but they don't, they don't challenge it.
So for them to really put the brains together, it sounds like he knew how to get more out of both of you, really innovating.
Yes.
And this is where I say like, when I reflect back and I think over the course of my career, all of the value that this would add to then what I say is the, the next role where my boss was Carrie van Bell and you know, she was somebody who, and again, I have immense respect for all of these leaders, but she was the one who really, I don't like to use the word groomed, but she understood the executive boardroom and she knew my skills and talents and she was able to make the tweaks, I guess you could say in a not so subtle way, she was very direct in telling me what I needed to do and how I needed to change, especially in bigger presentations.
So I remember one particular presentation.
I was quite nervous before I went in, but very excited about what, you know, was coming to light in this particular meeting.
And afterwards she pulled me aside and said, okay, that was great.
You did X and Y very good.
But next time I want you to do it this way and showed me exactly how I could have done the same thing, but a little better.
And so these were in the moment, very good coaching techniques that actually helped me move into that executive role that I took on.

Christine Laperriere:
My challenge as somebody who does a lot of leadership development is always the correlation or the return on investment.
So I ask every person that I interview, what do you think the return on investment is to a business when they have a best boss ever versus a very mediocre boss?

Stephanie Wolfe:
The return on investment is talent and output.
I think those are the two biggest things that they'll get because, so I think back to the opposite.
So the ones, the roles where perhaps they didn't have the best boss ever and what happened there, I didn't feel motivated.
I didn't do as great a job.
I wasn't pushed.
I didn't feel the need to really do much more than my description.
And so each of these leaders, not only did they shape who I became as a leader and who I am today in my career, but I did my best work for them because they knew what I was looking for.
And so I think the ROI is that you're just going to get a better return on the person that is working for you at that time.
And I mean, I know you've probably said this on this podcast before, but people never leave the company.
They leave like the boss.
I will say that it was very difficult for me to leave.
There was only one where she had already moved on, but for each of those other roles, it was difficult to make that decision to move on.
And it was often other circumstances have nothing to do with the leader.

Christine Laperriere:
Sure.
I mean, you're right.
Most of the time it's the leader, but not so much every time.
Right.
And I mean, it's wonderful when you can actually leave a position, look back and feel like you really got something amazing out of that besides just your salary, right?
That's interesting to that.

Stephanie Wolfe:
I'll just say that I think that that's maybe why I have been such or why I've had such an opportunity to work with great leaders is that I think it takes two, right?
You have to be also willing to share your thoughts and your growth and your challenges and what your ambitions are in order for that leader to actually effectively help you.
So I think that it plays a role too, in the person who is reporting into this boss to tell them what it is that you want to do with your career.
And so I think it works both ways.
And like I said, perhaps that's why I've been luckier than some to have these great bosses.

Christine Laperriere:
I think that's also, you know, it's a fantastic point and it's something again, we don't bring that up very often, but it sounds like you were willing to be coached.
You were willing to be invited to the table.
You were willing to lean in when, when you got invited.
It probably made those leaders have fun with the journey of working with you and seeing you grow.
What has not worked when you've seen different inexperienced, different leadership styles, like what is something that doesn't work well for you?

Stephanie Wolfe:
I just had the image come to me right now, as you asked me that question of, and I will not name names, but yelling, yelling behind a closed door out of anger, frustration to me is just a sign of weakness in a leader that if you have to yell at your employees for any reason whatsoever, that's a sign of personal weakness, not leadership.
So that for me is an instant turnoff, not going to work.

Christine Laperriere:
I think that's such a great point.
You know, it's interesting.
I've coached, I coach, obviously a lot of female leaders in crying is always like the classic call that I'll get the emergency call, right?
Will be even at the president level.
It's like something's happened and I'm frustrated and I've cried.
And I'm always like, people express emotion in different ways.
And interestingly enough, yelling is one of the things we probably don't talk about that enough because I don't yell.
I might get teary eyed, but I know quite a few leaders that I've worked with who, when their emotions get the better of them, it turns into yelling, which is much more, in my opinion, a brace than somebody getting teary eyed.

Stephanie Wolfe:
Exactly.
And, and it's an automatic loss of respect in some ways for me personally, perhaps not for others, but there's a better way, I think, to approach it.
And oftentimes the, I would say the tears come more from maybe perhaps disappointment or frustration or whatever it might be.
The yelling was coming from a place of true anger.
And I think that if you're unable to control those types of anger emotions with your employees, then there might be some work that needs to be done.

Christine Laperriere:
Right, you might need some coaching.
Do you have any other stories?
I mean, you're a mom of three and you've gone through maternity leaves and I know you've had the nights where you lost sleep and all of those things while you were navigating a busy career.
Anything else that comes to mind when you think of what worked well or didn't work well as you were trying to build a family at the same time that you tried to pursue a pretty intense career?

Stephanie Wolfe:
So yes, I will say that it hasn't always been easy.
There has been a lot of sleepless nights, but you know what?
It's finding truly the people that I surrounded myself with to help me through this journey and also, you know, relying on myself.
So I would say I had some very strong mentors, one in particular, Greta Cusworth, somebody who I value her opinion to this day.
She has guided me since 2011.
We were actually connected through the women's executive network back in 2011, and she has always been there for me as I've gone through different career transitions and made different decisions as it came to my career.
And she was somebody who I truly respected because she had grown adult children at that time when we first met.
And so she understood some of the challenges that I was going through at that time.
So she was kind of my shoulder to cry on when it was difficult, but also somebody who offered sound advice throughout my career.

Christine Laperriere:
She sounds fantastic.
That's great.
Listen, Stephanie, it was so nice to talk to you.
Thank you so much for your time today.
Any words of wisdom you just want to pass on to those leaders that are listening and trying to figure out how to be the best boss.

Stephanie Wolfe:
Know that every single one of your employees is looking for guidance in some way.
You just have to find out what it is and you can help them.
Thank you so much, Christine.

Christine Laperriere:
If you want to hear more, join me at ChristineLiperrier.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 31
Title: The value of natural consequences
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Jeff Barrett

Christine Laperriere:
I'm your host, Christine Laperriere, and today I've brought Jeff Barrett onto the show.
I'm thrilled to have Jeff because in the middle of the pandemic, I was really struggling with how to help bring my kids up in this environment that's been so challenging.
Through lots of hunting for great schools and great education options, I stumbled across the Blue Mountain Wild School, which Wild stands for Wilderness Integrated Leadership Development.
So, Jeff, thank you so much for being on the show.

Jeff Barrett:
Thank you.
Thanks so much for having me.
This is really exciting.

Christine Laperriere:
Today, I'm going to take a little different lens.
I do want to hear about your work experience and some of your leadership experience and how it shaped the way that you're leading Wild School.
But from there, I'm actually going to also pick your brain on how you're raising these to help understand a lens of leadership and kind of how you're bringing that into the programs that you're delivering at Wild School.
So it'll be kind of two parts that we're going to talk about today.
So I'm going to start with you first.
Just tell us a little bit of, yes, your background, where you've worked.
I've heard you've had lots of interesting jobs and a little bit about what you experienced from leaders in leading up till today.

Jeff Barrett:
I have had a very eclectic and storied background.
I've done some interesting things.
A bear viewing lodge in the Great Bear Rainforest for the Kirsi Khekhe people.
I've worked in Antarctica.
I've worked in the Arctic.
I've set up an eco-tourism program in Arvi at Nunavut.
I started a tourism program in the Yukon for the Karakostagish First Nation.
Worked up in Kalani up in the parks up there designing eco-lodges.
I've designed eco-lodges all over the world in Oman, O'Hamas and Antigua.
So I've had a long yandering career.
Looking back, it does make sense.
At the time, it probably made very little sense to myself and anyone watching the different directions.
But I think I've been really led by just a deep love for wild spaces and wild places and the people that live in those places as well.
And I've seen a lot of great people come out of really remote and extreme places and really their teacher has been, in many cases, has been the wilderness and the upbringings that they've had in those places.
So a lot of that has been influential in what we're building here with Wild School.

Christine Laperriere:
So tell me a little bit about when the wilderness is your teacher.
You know, what does that look like?

Jeff Barrett:
My kids are in ski racing.
I came from a ski racing background.
And one of the great additives of ski racing is the clock ever lies.
And I think the wilderness is that aspect.
You can say many things, you can hide behind many excuses.
But at the end of the day, when you're on a canoe trip and you're cold and you're wet and you're miserable, there's nowhere else to hide.
You know, I always say there's there's two types of leaders in this world.
There's the people that complain about the leaky tarp and there's the people that go out and fix the tarp.
And, you know, what we're trying to do at Wild School is take those kids and show them that, you know, you got to fix the tarp.
No one's going to fix it by yourself and you can complain all you want.
But at the end of the day, it's just you and the elements.
That's amazing.

Christine Laperriere:
And, you know, and I think of coaching so many leaders, that aspect of leadership gets lost.
I think lots of people will talk about bosses that they've worked for, who, you know, are definitely not interested in fixing the tarp.
They're hoping to complain and help somebody else fix the tarp.
So I think that's brilliant.
Tell me a little bit more about the type of leaders you've had.

Jeff Barrett:
I know they've probably been all different types, but some of the things you learn not to do while you were being led by others.
I think I've had the range of bosses that were either completely laissez-faire, offering just sort of essentially throwing me to the wolves and the other one of micromanaging me to the point of exhaustion.
I had this one boss who I was working as a landscape architect, and he hired me on to be a landscape architect.
He was not a landscape architect, but he just felt like he knew everything about landscape architect, and he would sit there and he would talk and talk.
I go and ask him a simple question, and he'd talk to me for an hour and a half.
I'd have to work late into the night to finish the work because I'd spent half the day just listening to this person talk to me about absolutely nothing.
He just got to walk away.
I'm like, I can't do that.
That's insulting to a boss.
He's like, trust me.
And so I came back the next day and he was talking and talking and talking.
And I just stood up and just slowly walked out of the room and sat down at the desk.
And he followed me back to my desk.
And I just ignored him and kept working.
I think he sat there for another hour just talking to me.
I just completely ignored him and worked away at my computer.
Wow.

Christine Laperriere:
That goes to show you not so high on emotional intelligence.

Jeff Barrett:
Completely unaware.
I was used to people not listening to him.
It was ingrained in his in his DNA that that was behavior to just stand up and leave and walk away.
But you got to figure out those coping mechanisms with certain people.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
No.
And I mean, that is a good example, again, of, you know, I think there's probably a lot of people listening going, Oh, I've had I've had that boss.

Jeff Barrett:
I know that one is completely oblivious to everything all around it.
And, you know, that really became it became quite intolerable of just that lack of awareness, you know, that lack of self-awareness, lack of awareness of everything that was around them.
And it's a point of embarrassment, too, of client meetings were just missing the point completely.
He was a smart guy, you know, and very gifted in terms of attention to detail and, you know, those aspects.
But from a business perspective of understanding the client, the assignment, you know, just greatly lost on him.

Christine Laperriere:
Just, yes, lost it.
Interesting.
Anything else from your travels?

Jeff Barrett:
Some of the characters I had, I worked in Antarctica on expedition ships, taking passengers on, you know, to various excursions in Antarctica and the Arctic losses I had along the way.
And a lot of them would model themselves on famous British explorers and sort of this pop of, you know, dressing them as sir and and all the sort of the details that went on with the day to day and talk about attention to detail because you're dealing with, you know, the Arctic, you're dealing with firearms, moving engines, parts.
But the best one I had, so I had one that was just, you know, on me for every single detail, you know, made sure I was wearing a watch.
I never wore a watch before that.
You know, you can't operate without a watch.
You know, and looking at my uniform and dressing everything else.
And then and then that same expedition, I had another one that came up and he had zero.
Just let me do whatever I wanted to do.
And I remember feeling just as of, you know, much more accountability and fear for myself from the one that gave me free reigns that I had to make sure all the engines were having.
I had to make sure all these pieces were working because it was on me.
Whereas the other one, I was like, well, he's got this.
He's worried about every he's on me on the type of watch I'm wearing.
Obviously, he's got those other details covered.
So I definitely did a lot better.
I realized that at an earlier age that I liked having the frame of where to go, but being able to give a longer leash, you know, that I had to make sure that that was that I was being dressed because there was no one else to do that.
And that it popped with me.
If those engines weren't working, then there was people stuck out in the ocean.
No one was going to be looking after my shoulder except for me.
And it would come back to me because those people weren't in that boat, knew it was my responsibility in that.
Right.

Christine Laperriere:
So your personal accountability.

Jeff Barrett:
Personal accountability.
Yeah.
And I think it's, you know, we talk a lot about our school's natural consequences, and it's really hard for someone in kindergarten that doesn't wear their gloves or jumps in a puddle and is freezing cold to see those connections.
But through repetition of those natural consequences, you quickly see, you know, if I do this, then that's going to happen and you can see it directly.
And again, it goes back to that analogy of in the wilderness, there's nowhere to hide.
If you forget to bring a matches on a canoe trip, you're going to be pretty cold and hungry that night.
And there's no one else, you know, no one else to be responsible except for yourself.

Christine Laperriere:
You know, it's interesting when you talk about that personal accountability, though, and how you teach that, because, like you said, all of a sudden you have more leash, but more personal accountability, which is counterintuitive to a lot of leaders.
They almost feel like if they're not there, you know, micromanaging or coaching the task, that somehow it's going to go wrong.
And I think this is amazing because it was just such a perfect example of how they actually got more value out of you by stepping away and giving you personal accountability, which was important to you.
Yeah, 100 percent.
And letting me fail.

Jeff Barrett:
I mean, I think failure is something that we, you know, we talk a lot about leadership, but we don't truly let people ultimately fail.
So worried about how it looks and how it stacks up.
And then unfortunately, I think we take that into our kids.
We certainly do in school system and we really do it badly in our parenting right now.
I have this book that I'm mulling in my head.
It's called The Art of Deadbeat Dadding.
Probably not a great term, but but you get the concept.
I love it.
Like, you know what?
Like, you know, sometimes I'm very forgetful and mindful.
And my kids have to pick up the slack.
You know, if I send them out, you know, without the right food, without the thing.
And I and we see this a lot with students where a student will come back.
My mom forgot to power my dad, forgot to pack this in line.
And did you check your bag to see if that was back?
It's not your mom's fault.
You're out here without that equipment.
Natural consequences.
And it's a hard one at a really early age, but you keep you keep repeating those things that there is no one to account but yourself.
And that's a big thing we teach at Wild is you're your own pilot.
You're driving the ship.
No one else is steering it.
You're steering it.
And that's our style of that's what we teach.
Leadership is the idea that not so much leading others yet of leading yourself.
And your parents are there for your support.
Your teachers are there for support.
But at the end of the day, you're the person that makes these decisions.
And they have consequences.
You have to make these decisions.
And we're constantly bringing that back to their individual decisions of ruddering their own ship, making them understand that they do have consequences.
And again, the wilderness is the greatest of all teachers because those consequences are so immediately shown.
You don't put enough extra gear.
You're cold.
You don't put a rain jacket on.
You're wet.
You don't put food on right food together.
You're hungry.
I mean, it's just so direct.
And we're able to tie those lessons back to them and really work on those executive functions of, well, did you prepare?
Did you lay out your stuff the night before?
Did you check your involved in making really making them understand that?
Yeah, while there's someone constantly falling around, helicoptering you around at the end of the day, if you don't if you don't check those things, then you're going to suffer those consequences.
Not your mom or dad.

Christine Laperriere:
I think that's incredible.
You were just making me think of something, too.
You talked about parenting, right?
And how we're solving problems.
We're over parenting.
And to a degree, we're taking away what just like you gave the example.
It actually feels good to be personally accountable.
There's something really empowering that feels good because when it comes through at the end of the day, you know, you can own the win.
You get to own the win of that.
Yeah, that's such a great point.
If there's failure, but that's right.
But then the winning, it comes back to that.
That's a really great point.
It's yours to have.
Right.
And then the second thing that I love when I'm thinking about the wilderness as a teacher, you know, what's cool about that is it's not personal.
So when you try to raise kids who have those tough love moments and understand consequences, it looks like, you know, some parents would go, oh, God, that's so cruel.
You know, it's so cruel.
I mean, I've done it now that I'm parenting two kids in wild school.
I've done it where I've said, you know, if you don't want to put your boots on, that's fine.
Just go.
All of a sudden, they're standing outside, you know, in their socks and they're like, wait a second, wait a second.
OK, you know, I want my boots.
I want my boots.
So, you know, it's but but but it sounds so cruel, you know, as a parent to go say, sure, go to wild school with no boots on.
Knock yourself out, you know.
But but the wilderness is not doing that.
So because it has a bad day or because it's gray outside or because it's windy and rainy, it wasn't that because it was personally attacking you.
It's just that's the reality.
That's the whole ecosystem of life right there.
Right.
It's like some days are gorgeous and some days are windy and cold.
You know, I think it's that resilience and understanding that none of those things are personal.

Jeff Barrett:
They're just things that we have to navigate.
Yeah, exactly right.
And and it's a little bit of that harshness.
But at the end of the day, there's no choice.
Like you got to keep going.
Like, what are you going to do?
What other choices do you have?
You've got to get to the bottom of that river.
You've got to get across that valley.
You've got to keep going.
Yeah, I get you're wet.
I'm wet to get your cold.
Yeah, you're hungry.
But what would what is the other option here?
You have no choice but to keep going.
And we've had a lot of those moments, you know, we don't obviously we don't try to find those moments, but those moments find you.
And we've all can look back on them in life and that linking those together and looking back on those experiences and reminding our students of those experiences creates confidence.
I've done it or I got through it.
It was bad at the time.
But look at me now.
I'm stronger.
I'm more resilient.
We talk about grit.
Put your head down and keep going.
Yeah, you know, and I and I think those even those smaller lessons where one person's mountain is another person's anthill.
You know, even if it felt really insignificant to someone else, it's significant to other people.
And that's it's that's I think how you get confidence is you.
And you bring it.
You did you did it before.
You've already come this far.
You can do it again.
And looking backwards in order to go forward is really critical in creating strong and strong leadership.
So I don't know if you want to get into this, but we were talking about this earlier before about the idea of how do you prepare for something that you don't know what is coming and the idea of that?
We don't know what we don't know.
You know, there's that statistics that's thrown around 65 percent of jobs in the future don't exist yet.
I don't know how you can predict a number that you don't even know.
But anyway, right, regardless, somebody figured it out.
You have the math on that one and probably a lot smarter than I am.
But we know the world changing rapidly.
We don't know what the future brings.
We never know what the future brings.
So how do you prepare for a trip that we don't know anything about?
What do you put in your bag to go out the door when you don't even know where you're going?
So what we do at Wild School is we focus on this idea of these core competencies or core skills.
And it's the idea that you can parachute into any situation with these core competencies and core skills and you're prepared for it.
So it's the idea of things like resiliency, grit, perseverance, creativity, adaptability and the ability to, you know, I just landed on Mars and my spaceship's broken and the food processor's not working.
What's the solution?
And so our hope is that our students will be able to sit down and say, OK, guys, group up.
Let's go here.
Here's what we know.
Here's what we don't know.
Here are the tools that we have here, the skills.
Let's get to work and solve that problem.
And, you know, and again, it comes back to the dart leaking.
What are the how do we solve this problem?
And, you know, there's obviously this core skills of not tying in ropes and tarps and the actual the physical aspect.
But it's just the ability to solve any problem and to deal with the adversity that happens and to keep pushing.
I just think that is such an incredibly powerful point because I get involved in a lot of conversations with leaders who struggle to lead in ambiguous, complex situations that don't have clear black and white right answers.
Because leadership is that right.
It's just this I guess that's probably what I love about it is it's a mix of left brain, right brain skills like it's kind of like, you know, you might know the path to a more profitable outcome, but you also know that it's going to beat up people and you're going to lose people on the path if you go to the you know.
So you're trying to figure out how do I navigate these multiple layers of the problem at the same time?
And ambiguity is definitely where I'd say most leaders fall down.
It's just like when they can't find the right or wrong.
And what you're talking about is packing a bag for the unknown.
You know, it's like that.
And really, I mean, I just love that.
Just even that thought around how do we teach, you know, kids as they grow older to pack a bag for the unknown?
How can they have confidence in the moment in which it is the unknown?
Because that's the other thing.
I see a lot of people kind of fall down when it's not a textbook situation.
And I think being confident and knowing how to roll up your sleeves and problem solve when there is no playbook.
I mean, jeez, COVID did that to almost every leader I coach.
It's like, here's the unknown.
You've arrived.
You know, nobody knew how to navigate that.
And some did really well with it.
And others, you know, it was a it was a much bigger struggle.
There's always going to be adversity.
There's always going to be problems.
And I think that the the people that find success in those moments can have that confidence again to fall back on those core competencies.
And it doesn't matter what it is.
It can be anything.
It can be life.
It can be, you know, the death of a family member getting fired.
It can be, you know, an acquisition in a company.
It can be a change in leadership.
But you can trust back on that aspect of everything's changing, always changing, everything's always in flux.
That's that's the story of the world.
Like nothing stays the same.
Nature doesn't stay the same.
Nature is always changing.
We need to be always changing as well to keep up for that.
That's a hard thing for a lot of people.
And I think as we get older, adults are the worst in this.
Right.
We build these walls.
We build these.
This is what I do.
This is where I live.
This is where I go back to at night.
This is the thread counter sheet that I have.
This is my morning routine.
This is success and this is comfort.
And I think we get older and older and older and our world gets smaller and smaller and smaller and smaller and more predictable.
I think some of the greatest minds of our world are able to just constantly just shred it all down.
I was listening to Elon Musk the other day and he was talking about when he lived in a tiny house.
The guy, I mean, think about like his net value per square foot of what he owned was like was an outrageous number.
But it was such an interesting fact that he just shredded everything he had because he was too complacent comfort.
He needed to be uncomfortable.
And in through that uncomfortableness and that like, I don't know, this just doesn't feel right.
That's where greatness comes from.
Think about your kids when they when they come back and they say my favorite thing these days is when my kids come back and they say, I'm bored.
Tell me, how do you deal with an I'm bored?
I want to hear it.
Creative is coming down the pipe.

Christine Laperriere:
I can't wait to see what you're going to come up.
You know, and they roll their eyes and walk away.
But we we so badly want to fix that for our kids right now.
We're like, OK, well, have you how about a device?
How about this?
How about that?
We're trying to fix it instead of just like, I got nothing.
Yeah.
Oh, and I can't wait to see what you come up with.
What is going to come up with?
And I've seen some, you know, on the weekend, they invented this game where they were called Don't Step on the Poop.
They had found this like these little like blobs and they were putting it around the room and then they were blindfolding each other and they were trying to memorize a course of not stepping.
I mean, it was so creative in such a small space.
And I think that we were talking about early, but like, how do you solve the world?
We need to be able to have leaders that can create something from nothing.
That's the key of everything, right?
Like, you know, that's why I'm just I'm so blown away.
Back to Elon Musk for a second, like the ability to create something from nothing that doesn't exist, you know, in terms of the way we think is how we will, you know, eventually evolve at a higher rate to creating new ideas for energy and travel and economies that that ideas that don't even exist yet.
But we need to be able to provide that space and that confidence.
And it's those uncertain moments, boredom, fear.
You know, this isn't right.
I've never been in this space anymore to jump off that cliff.
The natural world is not a comfortable place at times.
Anyone slept out in the rain, you know, slept in a ditch, slept on a beach and been cold and wet and miserable knows that feeling intimately of like, you know, it's not comfortable sometimes.
But if you can rip it all away, take it all away, take that house, take the car, what are you left with?
And that person is an ability to stand on the platform of your inners, your core, your confidence, your core competencies, your values set to solve and have that confidence.
Get about it.
Those leaders are going to change the face of this planet.
I love it.
This is just amazing to me, because I'm so excited as someone who works with all of the adult leaders.
I'm just so excited about the concept of bringing kids up with this at the start, like instead of waiting to try to teach it to somebody who, you know, has had all the great schools and has kind of had an insular life.
And then they're, you know, trying to navigate corporate.
Like, why couldn't we start early?
And build this into the way kids are raised versus it being something that they have to learn in business school, hypothetically, which they don't.
Nobody learns it in business school.
You know, one other thing I want to add to this.
So one thing that I've noticed, first of all, I've noticed personal accountability, I have to say, as my six year old begged to stay up late last night to finish her homework, begged.
I'm like, I'm torn.
I'm like, you're going to get you're going to be short on sleep, but you really want to finish this.
She's like, Mom, I got to finish this before bed.
I'm like, all right, you know what, I'm going to let this go.
But, you know, personal accountability, like she was really feeling like, you know, she would not sleep at night if she couldn't get that done.
The other thing that I've been really impressed with that I've picked up from the teachers in both of my children's classes is this concept of teaching inclusion.
And I don't even know if people are really like, I'd love to hear your point of view on it, because I feel like I'm not hearing a lot of anti bullying or trying to teach kids not to do things.
I'm hearing more proactive teaching about the kind of culture that is going to work for everyone and teaching kids how to be, you know, inclusive, like I'm noticing that, you know, I'm hearing, you know, we're not letting kids like sit by themselves or we're not letting kids kind of we're just kind of teaching them to really act as a pack in a family, you know, kind of regardless of their differences.
So I'm just curious, like, was that on purpose?
Is that just kind of an offset of the way that things are?
What are your thoughts?
Yeah, I mean, it definitely hits towards our core, some of our core values.
We teach a lot about empathy and, you know, just in that is self-awareness and understanding, you know, beyond yourself, getting out of your own emotions, getting out of your own world and seeing other lenses.
And I think once you could do that, then you can see things a lot more clear.
You know, the students sitting by themselves eating lunch, you're outside of yourself.
You're seeing that.
So it's a difficult thing to teach, especially to younger students.
But we just we do it just by repetition, just constantly flipping things around.
You know, the teacher saying, you know, the student outbursts and not listening, flipping that around me.
How is that what you're doing right now making me feel and really trying to get an answer, not the like, not good, you know, but like we like if you were talking right now and I wasn't listening to you, how would that make you feel in that situation?
And also, what about your neighbor here?
That person is listening and they can't concentrate.
How would that make you feel and driving that point quite deeply in and really getting them to understand that, again, that those actions have implications, not just on yourself, but on other people, that there's there's more to their community, to their class than just their own experience of it.
And that is a is a big aha moment for us, you know, early on in formulating this is, you know, the beyond yourself that you're we often kind of walk around through this tunnel lens that everything's about yourself and not about the community, the other individuals and your teacher.
Like how how is are you making your teacher feel?
You know, sometimes I worry it gets a little into like you're listening to them, but it's not.
It's really just asking difficult questions.
And we do a lot of that.
We ask a lot of difficult questions and then push it harder, you know, press it a little bit.
What do you mean by that?
What is and not looking for that canned response of not good.
What would you do you mean by not good?
Like, what are those emotions and trying to label emotions, too?
You know, that's something I think that we've come along.
We've evolved as society is, you know, when I was growing up, mental health was like an other thing.
And it's like, yeah, how do you didn't?
There was no degrees of mental health.
There's certainly not like you work on like your physical health.
And, you know, emotions were pushed down.
You know, are you hurt?
Why are you crying in ambulance?
You know, tough enough.
Yeah.
Versus like, you know, how do you actually feel?
Where do you feel that?
And the idea of trying to, you know, looking at emotions and talking about them so that they aren't becoming another thing that they're discussed.
And it's OK to discuss.
I mean, listening to some of our other students, the way they talk about, you know, in situations where I'm feeling that the way they express themselves, sometimes I'm I'm worrying we're creating monsters of, you know, you see the interaction between some of our grade five and six students is quite mind blowing.
But but they can they can identify exactly how they feel and how that those actions are making them feel.
And then in those conversations, they can actually flip it back and be like, I hear how you're feeling.
And this makes me feel you're making me feel sad right now.
You're making me feel sad.
And I don't like how this is going.
And I don't think I'm going to be the best version of myself after this encounter.
You know, I hope we've also given them, you know, the those some of those aspects of like grit and perseverance and adaptability that, you know, they can take that and figure out, you know, maybe expressing my emotions to the bully is not a good idea.
But I can go and express my emotions to my friend or my parents and get it off my off my chest out there and not being internalized and coming up in therapy.
Yeah, exactly.
And I mean, to your point, I mean, I think that that would build stronger teams in the future.
I think, you know, having individuals who know how to communicate when something's frustrating and get it, you know, move past it and having leaders that know how to accept that, hear it, understand it and move past it.
Like those are ironically, you know, big stumbling box today for a lot of people.
So, you know, what you're talking about, there's some huge upside.
They might sound kind of simple, but they don't exist in everyday, you know, working environments.
I guess that's right.
And I think also is that learning that there is no one fit all leader, too.
We teach leadership in these core values of our leader that any style of leadership could bounce off of, but that they, you know, you come back to again, again, listening, engaging, empathy, active listening, respect.
You know, just these sort of these key core values that you could be a hegemonic leader, you could be a servant leader, you could be any type of leadership style you want.
But you need to come back to these kind of these core values.
We're teaching that there's lots of different styles of leadership and that different styles of skills of working as a team.
And they're starting to understand so well that they're quite in sync of like, this person is really good at this.
But that doesn't mean that that's the only thing they can do.
But we can rely on them for that one thing and that you need to understand your people really well to get them for them to each to be the best individual that they can be.
Right.
So I love that.
I mean, again, that theme around really self leadership is what I'm hearing are self led individuals that kind of understand some core leadership value.
You know, again, that sets them up for anything.
Like you said, if they want to be good talkers and they want to be good listeners and they want to be good followers or, you know, any version of it, we don't we don't need to make the assumption that they're all going to stand in front of a large audience and drag them along with them.
You know, it doesn't have to be that that's their future.
But these are core values that work whether they're going to go on to be artists or go on to work in the Arctic or if they're going to go on and work in, you know, corporate environments like those those core values, they hold true everywhere.
There is that idea that leadership is that it's it's that word has become quite loaded, the idea of like you're leading others and therefore you're changing others.
And it's almost like a bit of a power over, you know, that that hegemonic is charging out and everybody follow me and all these different styles.
But I think that the idea of, you know, leadership, what we look at it is more that you be the best version of yourself pilot of own self that we can be.
And, you know, and then decide how you want that style to emerge as you grow and develop.
But it's it's we're giving them a platform that they can jump off of in whatever they want to do.
I think that that that idea of that the one eyes fits all.
Don't know what we don't know.
We don't know what these kids are going to do.
We don't know where they can go.
So the only thing you can do is sort of providing a key foundation of those those core competencies to give them that strength and confidence to let them jump.

Christine Laperriere:
It has been amazing talking to you today, Jeff.
Thank you so much for your time.

Jeff Barrett:
My pleasure.
Thank you, Christine.
It was really lovely.

Christine Laperriere:
If you want to hear more, join me at Christine LaPierre dot com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 32
Title: Fostering the next generation of leaders
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Cindy Diogo, Dawn Jardine, Cher Timmins and Catherine Marchand

Christine Laperriere:
On today's show, I am bringing in a panel of fantastic female leaders.
It began with a conversation I had with Cindy.
You're going to meet her soon.
She was sharing with me a little bit of her experience with her best boss ever, but then it started to become clear that she knew lots of other leaders in her organization that had also had some best boss ever experiences.
We decided today to do something a little different, and we're actually going to bring in a panel of great leaders to share their stories.
Cindy, thank you so much.
I'll ask you just to introduce yourself and the panel that we're going to talk to today.

Cindy Diogo:
Absolutely.
I'm so excited to be here.
I'm going to first introduce myself.
I'm Cindy Diogon, the head of talent acquisition here for Wrangle.
When we first had a conversation, I thought it would be a brilliant opportunity for me to bring in some of the most wonderful women that I work with currently.
They're exceptional.
They're leaders in their craft as well.
I'll make an introduction.
I'll start with Dawn Jardin.
She is our Director of Agile Quality here at Wrangle.
I've worked with her in the past as well.
I know her working style.
Then we have Cher Timmons.
I report into Cher.
She is our Chief of Staff and SVP of Operations.
She's been here for about four, almost five years, I believe.
Also, really well connected and just an exceptional leader.
Then last, I have Catherine CMarchand.
She is our Director of People and Culture.
She's also been here for about four to five years at Wrangle and oversees our people and culture and all of our people initiatives as well.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
I love that we have so many people leaders.
This topic is obviously near and dear to all of our hearts.
Absolutely.
Cindy, can I pick on you first, before I bring everybody else in?
When I brought up the topic of who's the best boss you've worked for and why, I know you had some thoughts.
I'd love to hear them.

Cindy Diogo:
Yeah, this is a really interesting topic.
We've been recently thinking a lot about talent acquisition.
I know that in the community, especially, this is the hot topic in attraction.
One of the things that we've been talking about is psychological safety and the ability for leaders and people managers to really create that atmosphere.
When you and I were first having our initial conversation, I actually thought of one particular manager or leader that I had early on.
She really embodied this for me.
Moving into technology, being a little bit younger in my career, she really stood out as a really influential leader because she created the atmosphere for me to be authentic and to be myself, which is something that resonated with me.
I know that we have a lot of those stories, but it really came down to having that and creating that environment where you feel safe and you feel like you can be yourself.
In those situations, when a leader does that for you, it really enables you to flourish and develop your career.

Christine Laperriere:
How does a leader create psychological safety or how did you see this leader do that?

Cindy Diogo:
It really came down to her being quite authentic and who she was as well.
What I really loved about this particular leader is she was just who she was.
She's wonderful.
She was just actually a little bit rough around the edges as well, which I really loved about this particular leader because it just made me feel as though I could be myself.
I had worked previously in a lot of really large corporations who you did have to put on a little bit of a mask.
For me, it was pretending I was a bit more polished than I actually am, especially moving into very large corporations.
You did have to put on that professional persona.
She allowed me the space to just really come in and be myself.
I think being her authentic self and acknowledging that she necessarily wasn't 100% polished herself created that space that I felt really comfortable to be myself as well.
What I really liked about her too is that she was just, I know everyone's talking about this, but she really embodied radical candor.
Really exceptional at just being blunt with me about my blind spots in a way that was really polite but very direct.
I think early on in your career while you're navigating, especially as a woman in the technology world and working in tech, having that ability to have somebody be really direct and forward with you and help you to be like, here's what it is.
Here's what you need to change and shape, I think is something that you need when you're starting off your career as well.

Christine Laperriere:
Okay, so Shara, I'm going to pick on you second.
Tell me about your best boss.

Cher Timmins:
Yeah, I found that really to be hard to best boss ever, but there's pieces of bosses I've taken.
The best type of boss I've had were those people who had the leadership style of transformational.
They brought you along.
You're in it together.
You're more of a partnership than a boss direct report.
That makes sense.
They give you all the context.
They give you the space to do it in a way that's creative and innovative.
It fosters loyalty and you understand how you support the organizational goals, right?
You could just do this.
And especially for my career, I come from an admin background.
We're not often given those opportunities to be creative or innovative.
So my best boss, I would say if I had to pick one, is the one that has given me the most opportunity in the space to be creative.
And I'll give you one story about that is in COVID times when we were given a department and I've never done it before.
I've never run HR in any sort of sense and given the opportunity to do it my way because I understood the values of the organization and the trust that that boss gave me.
And that I have grown more in these past two, almost three years than I have my entire career.
And it's because I was brought along.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
And give me some detail of that.
Just walk me through.
What does a day in the life look like when you're kind of under that type of influence?

Cher Timmins:
Right.
I think this is a buzzword, but I'm going to actually say it.
It's the green field.
It's waking up and coming to this desk, which is a couple steps away from my bedroom because we're working remotely, and being creative, being able to do things that actually value, that impact employees in a positive way.
It's not doing some things, the old mental models, old models of how you run HR.
It's let's do, let's care about people.
Let's believe in our values.
Let's action those values and do something for our employees that they'll love, that positively impact not only their day to day, but their lives.
And that's what that feels like.
It's growth.
And sometimes it's hard.
And sometimes it takes all that relationship capital and moves things forward to influence people.
But at the end of the day, I think when I close down my computer at night, I think, wow, we've done something.
Even if it's just for one person, but we've done something great.
And I think that's what gets me really excited.
And that goes back to that more growth in the last two plus years than ever.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
That is so cool.
Catherine, I'd love to hear from you.
What's your experience of a best boss?

Catherine Marchand: 
Hello.
I also reported to Cher and I can say that Cher definitely walks the talk.
All of the things that she said there, she also does for us.
And I so appreciate that.

Cindy Diogo:
Thank you.

Catherine Marchand: 
But I think like you, Cher, I've also had, I can't really pick one boss.
You know, it's different qualities from different either bosses or other leaders that I've worked with or alongside.
One thing that I think makes a huge, huge impression on me anyway, is a leader who meets you where you are.
Not everybody can do this.
Listening and receiving the information that you're sharing from a place of empathy where you're at, whether that's where you're at in your role and your expertise and your growth in that role, or where your role sits in the organization and the level of influence that you may or may not have, whether or not you're able to unblock yourself.
Yeah, that sometimes can seem sort of unimportant or, you know, a leader sits up here and you can't see me, but I'm raising my arm up here.
You may be down there.
And so your reality is so different and challenges that you have as an employee can just kind of look not as important to other folks who look at very things from a different altitude.
And so, I don't know, really being able to kind of help you navigate these things, but also be with you at the same level in these conversations is not a dynamic that every leader is able to kind of get to.
So I really, really appreciate that.
There's so many other things that we could talk about.
I also come from a bit of a generalist background with, you know, a long time I spent doing admin work, coordination, leading to project management, so on and so forth.
But when you're in these types of roles, sometimes you can feel like you're not really getting to any kind of place of expertise, right?
Like you're kind of maybe spinning in a thousand different directions.
Yes, you're kind of covering a lot of ground laterally, but you're not really digging deep into a vertical that will kind of allow you to take that expertise to your next gig.
And I find a really good boss can help you kind of identify what these strengths are and really clarify for you and help you discover these strengths that you may not even know that you already have.
That's something that I try to do very much in my practice.
And that's helped me a lot, especially earlier in my career, I think.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
And then Dawn, let's hear your perspective on this one.

Dawn Jardine:
Yeah, I'm similar to what Shira had said and Catherine and Cindy.
You know, I've worked with several people that have left a lasting impression on me.
And so it's difficult to single out just one, but I can think of two women in my career that early on kind of pushed me into a position of leadership.
I didn't feel like I was ready, but they believed in me.
So I think the trust and the belief in my ability and they had confidence that I had what it took to get the job done.
So that was super important to me.
And they were really open and listening to my ideas.
But at the same time, they had the courage to tell me when I wasn't being realistic.
I was part of projects that were large, big clients, and they had expectations to deliver.
It put some fear in me because I was like, oh, how am I going to do this?
But they really believed in me and helped me along when I had questions and always felt like I could go to them to ask them those questions.
So they didn't feel like I had to know it all.
And I think that's super important.
And that as a leader myself, those are those things that I find are really helpful for my team as well.
Just, you know, I don't know it all, but I'll help you through it.

Christine Laperriere:
So it's like they pushed you out there and let you take that big leap.
But then they were like, I've got your back, right?
You know, I'm going to work with you.
I'm not leaving you out there to hang yourself.
We're going to make sure that you're successful too.
Also, I mean, I'm just kind of curious, do any of you have stories where you think of a not great boss?
Like, what are some of the examples of things that you've seen in your career that really didn't work?
They really limited or stumbled, you know, how it has slowed down your progress.
I'm kind of curious.
What were those like?

Cindy Diogo:
When I went up through, went up through the ranks, so to speak, it was a very different time, very different professional environment than we are in now.
So I think what you, what you tolerated as your younger self to what you would tolerate now is quite different.
Now it's a, it's an environment of, you know, inclusivity of empathy, of trust, of authenticity, all the things we're saying around here now.
But you know, when I was learning how to be a leader or learning how to be employed, it was quite different.
And I think it's there, there's something about that power dynamic to what Catherine said about, I'm holding, raising my hand the levels of where you're at, the legitimate power a title has, the respect you have to give to elders, to people with those titles.
You know, it was never a sense of you're in it together.
It was, you do a job for me and you have to do it really well, or I'm going to tell you in front of a whole bunch of people.
So I always think to myself, what I learned from that is I want to be the leader I needed all those years ago.
And that as a leader that I try to be now, you know, empathetic, meeting people where they're at, bringing people along, hopefully not oversharing sometimes and, and freaking anybody out.
But I think that's the leader I always wanted and the leader I hadn't gotten until very recently.

Christine Laperriere:
Oh, it's a very good example.
Yeah.
And the hierarchical piece, you know, and the do as I say, and not as I do, it's just, it's out.
Nobody's, it's still out there and exists today.
But the fortunate thing is, is that in the war for talent right now that we're seeing, that's definitely not going to build your top talent team.
Yeah.

Cindy Diogo:
And it fosters zero growth, zero culture, zero everything.
Right.

Christine Laperriere:
Dawn, I'm just curious when you think of, you know, what, what hasn't worked well that you've seen?

Dawn Jardine:
Well, I think in your working life, eventually you're going to come across those bosses that, that you might not work as well with.
I've had a few.
I think similar to what Cher says, bosses that we always said beat with a stick had that attitude of like, do what I say.
It just doesn't work well because it makes you feel like you're at a disadvantage.
I've raised two sons and one of the things that I learned as a mom, and I know, you know, it's a different job, but at the same time you're taking care of people, right?
People leader.
And one of the things that seemed to work better was when I listened to them and instead of telling them what to do, listen to what they wanted and understanding having that conversation saying, well, this is what we need to do and making suggestions or making recommendations.
And you can do that with your team as well.
And that just seems to go over much better than, than, you know, this is what you need to do.
I think it goes better with just making recommendations and suggestions and listening to them.

Christine Laperriere:
Absolutely.
I have this argument that I think for every hour of parenting that you've done, that should count as some type of hour of leadership training.
And, and I'm not even, I'm only part way into my parenting journey.
And I can already tell you that I've learned more in the last, you know, six years that I have probably in, you know, 15 years of change management before that, because kids keep you on your toes, right?
And you do, you have to come up with creative ways because you get a chance to see that, that that's not progressing, right?
Or you try an approach and all of a sudden you see that you're not getting a very, you know, big result and you care so much that you're, you're willing to change again and try a new approach, right?
So I think that's such a great example.
Cindy, when you think of your not so best boss, I'm just kind of curious, what kind of traits come to mind?

Cindy Diogo:
I tend to learn from the, the negatives, like what not to do.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Cindy Diogo:
And so something that came up when we had talked about and something that I'm really an advocate for, especially here at Rangel, as well as when women don't advocate for other women.
And so I remember the initial conversation that you and I had that the scenario that came to mind was when I was actually pregnant and I was coming back to work from my maternity leave.
And I remember the leader, there had been a number of transitions while I was on maternity leave and, and the leader, I was up for promotion and the leader told me very upfront that she didn't think that I was qualified for the position because I had a son and the role required travel.
This was pretty devastating.
And I think something that came up to me was, ah, this is still happening.
So there was a little bit of an aha moment, but I think part of my passion and moving forward and what I've learned to take away from that is to be an advocate within the space and especially with young women or women in general, you know, moving into STEM and technology is exponentially more difficult when, when you're a woman.
And, you know, these things like this really affect your career.
And so it was devastating to realize that these things still unfortunately happen to women and there's barriers.
And it's another thing when it's coming from another woman.
So I think the thing that I definitely took away from that story and that scenario was be an advocate in this space and, and encourage women, advocate for them, make sure that they, we're holding space for women and women, especially with children, important because we get stuff done just because we have little ones doesn't mean that we're not and can't be successful in our roles.

Christine Laperriere:
I mean, in that message, I hear too, you know, just provide the opportunity and empower someone else to make the choice that's best for them.
Right.
Even if you decided that you didn't want to travel at that age with a young child at home, like let you make that choice about your career and your family and else, you know, whereas we try to make the decision for you.

Cindy Diogo:
Yeah, absolutely.
And with a little toddler, I would have welcomed travel at that point.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
I understand that completely.
So Catherine, I'm curious when you think of those same, now you've heard quite a gamut of traits that didn't work.
What, what crosses your mind?

Catherine Marchand:
This is a tricky one.
This is not about a specific bad boss per se.
I loved working with this person, but I think nonetheless, you know, things happen sometimes and they're a bit of a head scratcher looking back.
Why?
Why?
But I'll share this story, which I'm laughing about now.
Probably didn't laugh about it that much back then.
So we're talking like 10 to 15 years ago, right?
My boss asked me to join them in a meeting with their boss, position this as, I guess, a shadowing slash growth opportunity.
And little did I know, my boss came clean afterwards.
My presence was actually used as kind of a buffer, right?
To change the dynamic of that conversation.
My boss thought and knew in fact they were going to be in trouble with their boss in that meeting.
Brought me in here to avoid, I guess, some sort of explosion.
At the time, I don't think I really kind of grasp, I guess, the severity of how bonkers that kind of behaviors can be, especially for me as the employee having to live with their boss on a daily basis, seeing them in the changed, right?
For that person, was I complicit in this kind of weird approach?
Did I know?
Did I not know?
Do I not care?
All of these questions kind of come rushing after the fact.
And it's just, I could never, and I don't think anyone on this call would ever consider doing this.
I laugh about it now, obviously, and all is good.
But yeah, that really came to mind after hearing everyone's stories.
Yeah.

Christine Laperriere:
It just goes to show you that there was definitely not a best boss ever in the room somewhere in that conversation.
Because anytime that you're so scared of a discussion that you need to bring another employee in to keep maybe from getting yelled at or whatever your concern is, that tells me that there's not a lot of psychological safety in the house.

Catherine Marchand:
I would agree with that, yeah.
That's a great observation.

Christine Laperriere:
Wow.
I think that's amazing.
And then I'm curious, as women in leadership, are there any unique challenges that each of you notice or each of you face?
I'm just curious.
You brought up a great point earlier about, you know, kind of women advocating for other women.

Cindy Diogo
We could talk about women in tech, the male dominated industry.
But it's changing over the years.
But I remember when I first started, I think I was one out of 40 guys.
That dynamic was interesting.
But, you know, I learned to navigate that landscape.
And it's challenging at times, especially if you feel like perhaps you have something to say.
But maybe you're in a room full of guys that are talkers.
And that's challenging.
So I've had circumstances where I've had to speak up, you know, hold my own sort of thing.
Yeah, in tech it's a different dynamics there.
But we can support one another if there's another woman in the room.
I think it's really important to support one another and kind of bring them to the forefront as well.

Christine Laperriere:
Make sure they get a seat at the table to talk.
Any other ones that you can think of?
I'm just curious.

Cher Timmins:
This is maybe not the answer to the question.
But I've seen it when it hasn't worked, and we haven't been supportive.
And perhaps that comes out in a I guess, when the focus is on appearance or certain things and not skill or craft or value.
I have seen that throughout my career, actually, which is really unfortunate because I think to what Cindy had said earlier, we have a really special opportunity to create those, perhaps safe haven is too strong and dramatic of a word to use.
But I think there's an opportunity to foster that next generation of leaders and to hold that space for them and share.
And I think to what Dawn said about being in meetings and as maybe the only woman or a few of the women is piggybacking onto what they're saying and saying yes to that.
And this is what my point is.
And I have learned to really speak up more forcefully than I would normally in meeting because you have to.
You just have to.
And I think that is a lesson that I've learned the hard way so many times.
And I'm like, I had that idea.
Or perhaps, you know, I thought of that.
Or that's what I was going to say.
And I always kick myself after that meeting like, why didn't I say that?
So now I say it.
But it's really out of my comfort zone to be aggressive.
But I think you need to start and then you could release the aggression to be heard, if that makes sense.

Christine Laperriere:
Absolutely.
And one of the practices you're reminding me of a practice that we've talked about in some different corporate culture pieces around it's shine and rise.
And it's this idea of somebody contributes a point of view that maybe doesn't have a loud voice at the table.
Often it's women and minorities that kind of get lost sometimes.
And you would shine a light on the point that was just made again and elevate how much you appreciate at that point.
And just like you said, it's just kind of reiterating it so that that voice gets heard at the table with an equal presence of some sort.

Cher Timmins:
100%.
And I think everyone around here, we do that for each other, which shows up in various forms.
So I'm really appreciative of this group around here for sure.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
And then I'm going to bring us to the one of my favorite questions to ask.
In the world that I'm in, obviously organizations are investing in their people and they're investing in building great leaders.
But obviously everybody wants to know what's that return on investment?
How do we how do we prove that it actually impacts the business?
And so I love to ask each person from their perspective, you know, what's the real impact of having best bosses or bosses that have those great qualities versus having the not best bosses?
I'm curious, when you think of the value, could you explain it to me?
And Dawn, I'll pick on you maybe first.

Dawn Jardine:
That's an interesting question.
When I think of bosses that I've had and the difference there, they they always thought what was best for the business.
But even though their name wasn't on the building, they they thought about the business and how it was important to, they weren't focused on themselves, but it was for the good of the company.
And when I say company, I mean the people as a whole.
You know, if if we're all working towards the goal, the vision of the company, it's not about dollars and cents, but what's good for the people.
Because when people are happy and feel good about what they're doing and they feel like they're a part of something, then your business is going to thrive.
It's going to, because you feel like you you've got a part of that vision.
I know at Rangel, that's that's what we do.
We we we know what the vision is.
We know what we need to do as a business.
And we're all involved, like even with the OKRs, like with my team, we sit around together and think about what's our objectives and how does that lead up into what the business wants to do.
And just understanding that so that you feel like you're a part of what's happening and that in turn will, you know, they're going to treat clients well and they're going to do what needs to be done for the business.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
It impacts your entire client experience from there.
Right.
And like you said, if the primary focus in each meeting is the benefit to the business and not the benefit to the individual, how much more productive are we?
We're getting a lot more done.
If I was CEO of that business, I'd feel a lot I'd be sleeping a lot better at night.
That's a great point.
Cher, can I pick on you?

Cher Timmins:
It's a really hard question to answer.
It's an intangible to a tangible.
And I think the impact that I think it brings is a strong culture.
If people feel more engaged, that people care about their well-being and their growth, they're going to be more loyal.
There's going to be more communication, less mistakes.
You can be more creative and innovative.
You have teams that it fosters that organizational citizenship behavior.
I'll show up for you because you're showing up for me and we're going to make something awesome.
So it's that feeling where, you know, and even if you need to pivot, even if your company is going this way, was going to go this way, that's going this way now, all those teams are ready to mobilize.
They're ready to change and they're ready because they'll follow you anywhere because they care about their teams and the people that they work beside.
And although that's probably not a tangible, but what it does is accelerates the growth of the company.
You know, it ups your bottom line and then you attract more people, more of those specialized people, those talented people and you learn more and it's just sort of the snowball effect that happens at a company.
And I think that's one of the things that I see here that at Wrangle now is that those ready to mobilize teams, that everyone's in it together, they're cohesive, they're learning from each other, communicating and we can do anything.
That's the intangible that has tangible bits later, but that feeling.

Christine Laperriere:
Right, right.
Perfect.
Catherine, what do you think?

Catherine Marchand:
You know, my answer is a great kind of follow through after all the beautiful things that Cher just said.
I think to me, regardless of craft or what your expertise might be as a leader, having that authenticity is kind of, I don't even know what the right term to use is, but that's really what's going to carry you through and help you make these connections and when your leadership is authentic in an organization, for sure you'll have a much easier time managing issues when change might be a little bit sticky or difficult or uncomfortable, I don't know, pandemics.
Hello.
It's been a time, you know, these authentic leaders really help you kind of build and maintain that longevity over other companies where that doesn't exist.
I think that really helps people want to stay with you and weather these difficult moments and I mean, looking at really, really small teams, you know, your ability to retain these people and to not have them take off at the first kind of bump can be really critical.
So many teams are small and lean and when a person goes, you really feel the impact of that and depending on who that team is serving and the organization that has a ripple effects that are pretty significant sometimes.

Christine Laperriere:
Yep, absolutely.
All right, Cindy, what are your thoughts?

Cindy Diogo:
I agree with all of it.
I put on my talent acquisition on my recruiter hat for this question.
I think the ultimate ROI if you're thinking about recruitment and you're thinking about such an aggressive talent market is retention and attraction and best bosses are really great leadership have the impact to really make or break teams.
So from an attraction perspective, it's not uncommon for us to hear that people are interested in joining an organization because they know of that leader.
You know, they've worked with them in the past.
I had a situation specifically with Don.
I've worked with her in the past recruited someone over who knew of Don and so from an ROI perspective, of course, the people are what let you iterate on your product or let you iterate on your vision.
So being able to attract is really one of those big ROIs and then retention as Katherine mentioned as well is also very important.
Retaining that great talent ensures that, of course, you're bringing in people that can creatively look at problems or projects, think of something creative, offer a different offering to clients and really increase the value of the product that you might be presenting to your clients as well.
So I think that's one of the biggest tangibles for me in talent acquisition and recruitment is that that attraction component and then of course, retaining that top talent.

Christine Laperriere:
I love what you just said there.
I mean, I couldn't agree more.
I see that all the time.
Sure, some of us leave jobs for the, you know, other opportunities and bigger opportunities.
But I know from having talked to a lot of people, they don't leave their job.
They leave their leader.
You know, it's it's kind of an, you know, age old adage, right?
And just to your point about, you know, you can fill the seats, but if you don't engage those seats, you're just not getting the most efficiency out of that team.
You know, we're always trying to figure out how to drive more efficiency.
But a lot of its mindset and how people feel about the work they're doing and the contribution they're making.
Last words of wisdom.
I'll just kind of give me a ping if, if you think so, but last words of wisdom for any leader out there who's really trying to make a great impact.

Catherine Marchand:
I would just say very simply, just make the time and show up for the hard conversations.
Even if you have no idea what you're going to say, just show up.
Nobody expects you to have all the answers.
It's all good.

Cindy Diogo:
I would say to make sure that you're creating the conditions that all of your people that you manage or you lead feel safe and they have that opportunity to be really authentic.
I know that there's lots of data and lots of stats out there to say that when people do feel as though they belong in a culture and they feel really that psychological safety.
I know that's another buzzword, but they really do great things.
And of course they impact your bottom line.
They think of new tooling.
They think of new innovative ways to do things and they really do progress your organization.
So being able to create that environment where people feel safe, they can be their authentic self really does impact the organization and the success of an organization.

Christine Laperriere:
All right.
Thank you so much for coming out today.
If you want to hear more, join me at christinlaperrier.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 33
Title: Sending me on a new career path
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Mary Shannon

Christine Laperriere:
Today I invited Mary Shannon onto the show because when I worked alongside you at Vanguard Investments, I was so impressed with how much talent and enthusiasm and the mindset that you brought to the environment.
So it was a pleasure getting a chance to train you and coach you and work with you because so many of us could see that you just were a shining star and kind of on your way to big things.
So I am thrilled that you took me up on my offer to talk about your best boss.
So please introduce yourself a little bit more.

Mary Shannon:
Sure.
Thanks, Christine, for that intro.
My name is Mary Shannon.
I am the ISM or Insight sales manager at Manulife Investments.
To explain the accent, I came from Ireland 12 years ago, for those who don't know me on here.
I was a high school teacher and did a complete U-turn into the finance industry.
Since coming to Canada, I've worked in a number of global investment firms in various sales facing and coaching roles in both the mutual fund and ETF retail space, and most recently in the position of the Insight sales manager in Manulife for the last three years.
In the last 12 years, I've experienced a lot of changes in terms of aspects like the sales role itself, product evolution, and also the role of females in the And I'm very excited to come here because the leaders that have been above me have had a very significant role to play in my journey throughout those 12 years.
And so, yeah, I'm really excited to talk to that.
Amazing.

Christine Laperriere:
So when I ask the question, who's your best boss ever and why, what's the first thought that comes to mind?

Mary Shannon:
Well, I've definitely had a lot of great leaders above me in my time in the industry, and I probably speak to a number of those as we have this conversation, but one that really stands out to me is Jasmina Jihouti, now Jasmina Garbus.
We're still very close today.
And honestly, I wish everyone could get a chance to work with this woman because she is truly inspirational and has really impacted the lives of those that have gotten the chance to work with her.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
Tell me more about her.
I'm just so curious.

Mary Shannon:
So Jasmina herself, she's just, when you think about Jasmina, she's such a hard worker, she's very much, you know, lead by example, tough, but fair.
And she really empowered myself and a lot of those around me and gave us the tools that we needed to succeed in our own merit.
So, you know, when I think of Jasmina, what her real strength was that she recognized the strengths in others that they might not even see themselves.
You know, my story coming over here, I knew three people coming to Canada.
I was a teacher, you know, it was going to be very difficult to get into that industry.
I took a chance and met with Jasmina about an administrative role in this small investment firm.
And basically, she gave me the role straight away, no questions asked.
I was shy.
It was a new environment.
It was a new industry.
I was quite introverted, I would say, all those years ago.
And she saw the potential.
And basically within a couple of months, she took me into her office and said, Mary, I really think that you're made for more than this role.
I see a sales trade in you and I think that you'd be really successful in trying that aspect out.
How do you feel about going into the sales side of things?
And so, you know, I took a leap of faith, you know, she really just how she positioned things to me throughout the years has really been, you know, give it a try.
If you fail, it's OK.
But, you know, anything's possible if you put your mind to it and if you work hard.
And that was a mentality that I already had, you know, the work hard and just put your head down.
But she gave me that opportunity and it has really led me onto the track of, you know, sales progression that I've had ever since.
And you never saw yourself in sales before that?
I never even considered it because I was on a different career path at home.
You know, I had come here for one year with my then boyfriend, now husband, saying, we'll do a bit of travel before I settle down into the high school role.
You know, once you get into one, you have to cling on to it with both hands.

Christine Laperriere:
So you were going to be a high school teacher, right?

Mary Shannon:
Right.
That was my track teaching music and geography.

Christine Laperriere:
Wow.
Yeah, and civics.
So really, it was just she kind of made that U-turn for me.
The reason why I'm still in Canada, we were supposed to be coming back.
And ultimately, I fell in love with the role, the industry and the family that was built in this company.
It was a very small company.
We were very close knit.
And she, I would say it was a huge part, if not the primary part of creating that culture.
She was very much having fun.
She would come to the pit every morning, tell a story, have some banter, get us all excited to get on the phones or go out and meet clients.
And we, you know, essentially we're work hard, play hard environment together.
So that's what I fell in love with.
If I'm to get even more personal, you know, I had a challenges with my visa to stay after two years.
And she stepped up, sponsored me through the company and actually was the reason why I'm still here today.

Christine Laperriere:
She sponsored you to stay in Canada.

Mary Shannon:
Yes.

Christine Laperriere:
Wow.
So that's amazing.
Like, she really helped you remove some pretty big obstacles to.

Mary Shannon:
She shaped my life, basically.
Amazing.

Christine Laperriere:
Tell me what the morning was like.
You know, you mentioned that experience.
So she'd bring the sales team together into the pit.
Tell me a little bit about that.

Mary Shannon:
Well, you know, being in a sales role, you have to be very kind of vocal.
You have to be very charismatic.
She wanted to create that storytelling culture.
And since then, you know, as I progress in different companies, I've done courses on how to tell stories.
This was her roots version or from the ground up version of that, just teaching us, showing us how to tell stories, but also doing it in a way that created team camaraderie and really brought us all together.
So, you know, nobody was talking through this.
Nobody was on the phone while she was standing there.
We were all very present and we were all chiming in as well.
She encouraged everybody else to speak up.
So it's really her natural way of training you to take that risk, share your stories, share your personality, but also then preparing us for the phones.
It's a bit of a Wolf of Wall Street moment.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
Right.

Mary Shannon:
Only in a slightly different way.

Christine Laperriere:
Sure.

Mary Shannon:
But she's getting you warmed up and she's kind of getting the, you know, everybody's heading the game for work and getting them excited about the day ahead.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Mary Shannon:
And I will say that at the start, you know, it's it's quite intimidating to be part of that and you're you're having this inner conversation saying, well, I'm not going to speak off.
You know, I'm just here.
I'm very green.
I'm very new and nobody wants to hear what I want to say.
But ultimately, she was encouraging you to get past that and really, you know, speak up, empowering all of us to do that.
And another maybe conversation I was having was that I was one girl among a bunch of guys in the sales role.
You know, back in the day, there wasn't that many females doing this.
And while we had a number of women who were empowered in our company, and I would say she built that as well, she was very much an advocate of women and where we needed to go or where we belonged and built us up.
And I would say I was probably, you know, there was a majority of men around me in the sales side.
When you had a female leader that you could look up to, what do you think that did for you personally, given that there was all men around you?
I think it made me brave and it really gave me the voice to speak out be confident and make an impact, not just within the company and among the team, but to our clients as well.
So it was really important for me to be able to be comfortable in those conversations, take the reins almost.
You don't want to be on the phone to somebody who's trying to partner with you, sell you something.
And they're second guessing themselves.
She gave me a strong voice and you nearly take that from her.
Like she was a very strong woman.
Sometimes she'd have all of the sales guys terrified of her.
Not in a bad way.
You know, there are those bosses that are leading with fear.
She's not doing that, but she just had this presence about her.
And she wanted all of us to have that as well.
So it was really trickling down effect of be confident, speak up for what you believe in.
And ultimately, it led to me having more conviction around what I was speaking of on the phone to our clients.
I had confidence.
I had conviction in what we were doing and what we were bringing to them.

Christine Laperriere:
That is very interesting to me.
That's such a good example of I always say culture is this interesting thing where it's like we replicate each other's behavior.
That's what culture is.
You know, there's this we don't know why, but subconsciously we kind of pick up other behaviors.
So when she's being confident and she's having conviction, you know, so much conviction that she's even, you know, people are kind of standing back and going, whoa, that to me, you know, like you said, she's instilling that and the rest of the team.
And that's really powerful.
That's an example of really good leadership and culture building.

Mary Shannon:
And culture is the reason why I'm at a company.
It's the reason why I stay.
And I think that is the case for a lot of people, if not more now, you know, people are more selective today, having gone through COVID, having gone through work from home about what the company does for them.
And if you have a really great culture and somebody who's going to stick their neck out for you as well, which is what she was constantly doing for us.
You know, she she was emotionally invested in our development and what we did and how we progressed.
And I can say that for sure, because she kept it up right, you know, even after I left the firm.
And that just brings a loyalty that money can't buy.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, it's amazing.
So now my question for you is I get challenged repeatedly about the impact of a great boss financially, if you're investing in your people, like what is the return on investment?
So can you think of the impact that her leadership had to the bottom line?

Mary Shannon:
For sure.
And I think, you know, what I was saying kind of alludes to that as well is that it brings a commitment from your people and it motivates you to really lean into your strengths and work hard.
You know, like I was working for Jasmina in my mind, you know, and a lot of us would say that it wasn't just I wasn't me in a silo.
I would say a lot of us were doing this for a person versus a thing.
You know, like it brings it to life and it keeps you engaged.
It gives you purpose as well, which is something that I read in the book about the All Blacks and legacy.
So they talk about purpose being very important for what you're building towards.
And if you have the right leader at the top, then they're communicating that in a way that is tangible and engaging and nothing can drive people stronger than that, I think.

Christine Laperriere:
I'm just curious, then, would you say numerically that that also drove a financial end result?
I would say yes.
And you know what?
I'm thinking of a very specific story when I think about that.
You know, when I came in, I didn't know anything about the industry.
I was literally starting from zero.
I didn't even do economics in school.
And so, you know, she really did take a chance on me.
But ultimately, I remember a I was taking the CSC, first of all, to get up to speed in the book sense.
But I just clearly remember just Mina and a wholesaler sitting down in the boardroom and literally going through what a bond was to me.
So so this is a woman who's running operations, marketing and sales all at once.
And then she's still making the time to sit down and teach me about, you know, the very fundamental basics of investments.
And it really went a long way in terms of a building up my knowledge, preparing me for the role, you know, that coaching didn't stop there.
She was constantly guiding, talking about messaging.
Every sales meeting we had, we were either brainstorming together as a group or pitching, you know, working on our message.
And of course, that's going to lead to results.
You know, if you're confident, if you're ready on the phone or in your meetings, that's going to lead to dollars in the door.
People are going to want to do business with you.
And so 100 percent, she was at the helm of that.

Christine Laperriere:
Now, when you think of bosses that were not the best.
And so I, you know, it doesn't have to be a worst boss, but I'm just kind of curious, like, what have you learned from the bosses that maybe you didn't try to replicate their style, but you saw things that didn't work for you?

Mary Shannon:
Well, I think in what I've shared so far about just Mina was the loyalty, the family feel and just everybody in it together.
And I didn't have a worst boss as such, or I wouldn't label anybody I've come across as a bad boss, but there were moments where I felt discouraged, disengaged in a conversation with a leader.
And one that sticks out in my mind was a certain period where I had gone for a role.
I didn't get the role that had opened up within internally in the company.
And I went to this leader and asked, what do I need to do to get there?
This is where I want to be.
What do I have to work on?
What are the gaps?
And ultimately, the leader, first thing they said was, have you considered looking outside of the company for the role?

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Mary Shannon:
And in reflecting back on that moment, first of all, it was a glaring sign to me.
OK, well, this person, I'm not sure if this is going to happen for me here.
And the conversation went farther along and there was practical steps and the usual kind of this is this is what I would do.
But in reflecting further on that moment, I think it was genuinely the best advice that they thought I should hear.
It was a smaller company.
They weighed up the reality and the situation and thought this can't happen here.
But if I were you, this is what I do.
I genuinely think it was, you know, genuine advice.
And whereas I was maybe a little demotivated in that moment, I think others would see that as a no brainer.
Yes, that was the thing to do.
And that's exactly what I needed to hear.
And I think basically it depends on the stage you're at in your career and your mindset.
And ultimately, I've been at other points of my career where someone has advised me, a leader has advised me, you know, do always have the conversation.
If somebody approaches you for always have the conversation.
And I heard that completely different, essentially the same advice in this moment.
And so what I would say is a strong leader knows where the person is at, knows what speaks to that person, maybe resonates with them and what doesn't.
That's kind of where I'm at with that one.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, yeah, no, I think that's an interesting question.
But it's got to be very demotivating when you hear, you know, have you thought about looking outside the company?
You know, that's basically not what any of us, I guess, want to hear when you're actively pursuing something, you know, that you're passionate about.
What advice would you give?
So there's lots of people listening into this show.
The many of them are either individual contributors or their leaders, and they're trying to think of how to be better and more effective leaders.
What kind of advice would you have for them?

Mary Shannon:
So in terms of advice, I think it depends on what stage you're at of leadership or getting to leadership.
You know, depending on that stage, I would give different advice.
But in thinking about great advice that I got at the beginning of leadership, I was told I was coming in, I was reading every leadership book.
I was trying to, you know, talk to everybody I knew that was a good or great leader, trying to get tips.
And ultimately, it's very hard to put it in words.
And that's what I noticed when I was looking for advice.
And the best way it was put was forget about the rest.
Just get to know your team.
Just cut out the noise and take the time to really get to know them.
It will take time.
It might take longer than you expect.
But ultimately, once you do that, you will be able to navigate things a lot more.
You'll have their trust, you'll have their open honesty.
And the only way that you can succeed as a leader is excellent communication between you and everybody else.
And so I find that to be just simple, but very effective advice coming into it.
I think that's brilliant advice, especially given that so many people kind of skip that step.
They sort of assume they're going to get to know their team over time, but then they're trying to navigate complicated issues without really understanding people at their core.
And so I think that's, like you said, simple, brilliant, you know, easier said than done advice.
It actually takes being intentional to to accomplish that.
Just to comment on that, you know, as you go into the role, it gets busier and busier and you're pulled in all these different directions.
And so if you can do that from the very beginning, it will make all the difference.
But it also lays the foundation for you to always put them first.
So no matter what else is going on and what other initiatives you're being pulled towards that might take you away from your team or just bring you that bit further away.
I think that I have always put them first because I know them, I know what they need.
And ultimately, I think that's what a great leader does.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
Right.
That's amazing.

Mary Shannon:
You are a phenomenal relationship builder.
I really admire that about you because you are amazing at staying in touch with people and being thoughtful and staying connected.
We've had a couple of years now where we might not see each other all the time, but you you do a phenomenal job.
Do you have any systems or ways of staying organized that you help helps you keep those touch points with so many people that you've interacted with?

Mary Shannon:
I mean, there's part of me that puts names on a spreadsheet and maybe gently keeps an eye on that.
But ultimately, it's really that something reminds me of a person I want to reach out or when I come across a person that has an impact on my life, like yourself, Christine, I have really appreciated our conversations over the years and being able to work with you as well.
Those people just stay in my mind and I want to keep those relationships up.
They're really important to me.
And I find that the more that you do that, there's no downside to that, right?
Both personally and professionally.
I think that it's great to have that Rolodex, you know, or that gentle spreadsheet, but I don't really have a solid process around it.
I just, yeah, it just kind of comes naturally in the way.
Is that terrible to say?

Christine Laperriere:
Not terrible at all.
It's brilliant.
I just am so impressed because I'm like you, where I meet wonderful people that blow my mind and I want to stay in touch with.

Christine Laperriere:
I get into that, you know, too busy kind of thing.
So that sometimes I come back and I'm like, OK, I need to go reconnect.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
And so again, you know, I'll see something on LinkedIn or I'll see, you know, someone's name come across the announcement of your son.
OK, great.
There's a great reason to connect or a great reason to, you know, like you said, remember that person.
But I was just wondering because I'm like, you are so masterful at it.
It's wonderful.

Mary Shannon:
What I will say is, you know, I say that it comes naturally, but in terms of even you have sparked a memory in my mind of my current boss, Trevor Archer, who is amazing.
Another really inspirational person who has, you know, he he truly embodies that we're in this together.
You know, he really empowers you.
He lets you make those high stakes decisions and asks for your input is so genuine about, you know, let's figure this out together.
But in that conversation, you know, we're always talking about work.
We're always down to business.
It's extremely busy environment, but he still makes the time to talk about that networking conversation.
And manual life is such a big place.
It's not natural there.
You don't just bump into people in the hall, especially in the last two years.
It has to be an effort.
So when I talk about the spreadsheet, that is definitely where I I bring that out a little bit more and get systematic around it.
And so when I talk to him about my development, where I want to go to next, he's the one pulling names from his head, saying, well, let's let's have a conversation started with this person, or can I connect you with X, Y and Z?
So in that way, it is more planned out and systematic in terms of tracking what I do next, the follow up.
But ultimately, the conversations are all those getting to know you and just building that rapport, just like those personal ones that kind of we've we've built up.

Christine Laperriere:
That's amazing.
That's a great, you know, so there's a bit of strategic.
Sometimes it's kind of coincidental.
Sometimes there might be that gentle list.
But I even love the fact that Trevor does give you good coaching on reminding you who to reach out to.
So it sounds like he's also very thoughtful about relationships.
And so it makes it easier to, you know, brainstorm who should we be talking to?

Mary Shannon:
It's so true.
And in terms of that aspect, I think that's a neglected aspect for a lot of people that being mindful about your networking and actually making it happen within your career, within your company.
And I must give a shout out to Jason McIntyre, who you know well from Vanguard, you know, an old boss of mine who positioned it in a different way than I had heard it before.
You know, he put this development card in front of me, which was something that I needed to fill out for a skip level with him.
So I'm meeting with my boss's boss.
And basically, I outlined my strengths, what I wanted to work on, the next role or what I was building towards and who I needed to get in front of to get there, who I needed to impress, basically.
And so there was that whole networking aspect is built into that fourth quadrant of that conversation.
And it was a really clever way of putting it, because even women have been tarnished a lot with the whole put your head down and get your job done and not talk to people about where you want to go or not showcase what you're doing.
And so when you have a process like that, it really does bring it to life.
It makes you more cognizant of it, mindful of what you need to do to get there.
And so I've carried that on with me well beyond that conversation.
And I find it very useful today to to coach my team and and have them be mindful of those conversations and being purposeful about it.

Christine Laperriere:
This is amazing.
Thank you so much.
This was wonderful content.
And I'm sure so many people got so much out of this conversation.
So thank you so much.

Mary Shannon:
No problem.
Thanks for having me.

Christine Laperriere:
If you want to hear more, join me at Christine LaPerrier.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 34
Title: We are family
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Rick Renaud

Christine Laperriere:
Today I have on Rick Renaud, and I'm thrilled that he reached out via LinkedIn to tell us a little bit about his best boss as he listened and reflect to the podcast.

Rick Renaud:
It's my pleasure, Christine.
I'm glad to be here.

Christine Laperriere:
And Rick, just for a quick introduction on yourself, can you share with everybody just a bit of kind of where you're calling in from?

Rick Renaud:
Well, I'm calling in just about half an hour southeast of Ottawa, nation's capital, in a small little town called Russell.
My wife and I have been here for almost 25 years, raising our two wonderful children who are no longer children, unfortunately.
My son is now 21, and my daughter will be 20 in December, so our family is pretty well all grown up.

Christine Laperriere:
So tell me, I mean, you said you saw the question, I'm curious.
Tell me a little bit about that best boss that you were thinking of.

Rick Renaud:
Well, I'm going to go back in time a little bit.
I'm 53 now and this this individual came into my life in the mid 80s, so I was in my early 20s at the time, fresh out of college with a basic electronics diploma, very eager to start using that knowledge.
This man who took me on in his little electronics shop on the Quebec side of the border here in Ottawa, that town called Hull, where his father started this business in the early 60s, 1963, to be exact.
And he took it over after his father's passing.
He hired me on as a salesperson slash electronics repair individual.
During that time, people actually brought their electronic equipment in for repair.
It wasn't the throwaway society like we have today where you buy a piece of equipment and five years it stops working, you toss it out and go and buy a new one.
Back then, a VCR, you know, the average cost of a VCR was about $1,200.
I'm not even going to go into what a VCR is for the young listeners.
You can Google that.
So he hired me on.
I think I was probably 20 years old when he hired me on.
As I said, I was ready to college and right away he took me under his wing, taught me what his company does and what his store was all about, the family heritage and so forth.
But it was more than just an employer-employee relationship right off the bat.
He had a knack of drawing people in and making them feel so absolutely welcome and so individually important to the success of his business that you couldn't help but love being around this man.
I'll give you an example.
When I first started, it was right during the time that they were doing inventory at the store, and this was a store that not only sold electronic devices such as, you know, sound systems and video machines and television and so forth, but they also did repairs on all of these products.
So he also sold electronic components, printed circuits and IC boards and all kinds of different components and so forth.
So each individual component during the inventory had to be counted, obviously.
So he tasked me, one of the first tasks that I had was to count the footage of wiring that we had, the different types of wiring that we sold to people.
There I was rolling out these coils of wire that had thousands of feet of wire on them and counting every foot manually.
And he let me do this for about an hour and then him and one of the other employees came behind me and the two of them were laughing.
And I looked at them and I'm like, what's so funny?
And they said, you know what, you're going to make it well here.
I said, why is that?
He says, we don't count the wire by the foot.
He says, we just estimate the role.
So right off the bat, you know, they played a little trick on me and it made me feel accepted day one that, no, this was going to be a fun place to work.
And it never ended after that.
It was just one fun time after another and it became, it wasn't a job.
It really wasn't a job in my mind back then.
It was kind of a second home.
It was a second family and that's the way he treated every single employee he ever had under him.
He treated them just like family and his wife was identical.
They would go out of their way to accept you into their home.
We used to go out for dinner at least once or twice a week and he would always pick up the bill.
He would never let any of us pay for it.
And he wasn't, you know, he wasn't a wealthy man by any means.
He provided very well for his family.
He treated his employees with respect and consideration that you went under your way to do the most you possibly could for this man.
And I think that's why he was such a great success.
Because he treated his people with respect and dignity and gave them a sense that they were very important to the success of his business.
It was easy for his employees to do well for him.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Rick Renaud:
They had no problem going the extra mile for him.

Christine Laperriere:
Absolutely.

Rick Renaud:
He was an amazing, amazing guy.
There was another time where I was going through a bit of a rough patch in my early 20s.
I had had a long-term relationship and it kind of went sour and things, you know, just didn't work out as they do at that age.
And I was feeling pretty low and pretty down.
I don't know what it was, but he just had a way of making me feel like it wasn't the end of the world.
And at the time I thought it was, okay, this is it.
I'm, you know, I'm done.
This is over.
You know, the whole dramatic, you know.

Christine Laperriere:
My heart is broken and it will never be.

Rick Renaud:
Exactly.
Yes.
I will never get over this.
We spoke on many occasions about it and he said, you know, this is only a stepping stone, Rick.
You got to take it as an experience and move on.
And yeah, it hurts and so forth, but you will get over it.
You will succeed in the end.
And that stuck with me for probably, I'm going to say 20 years after that.
He left such a lasting impression on me that I consider him a driving force in making me the person that I am today.
And I think as an individual who now owns his own business and has his own employees, to be able to say that about a person that you worked for, not somebody that was a part of your family or something like that is over and above anything that can ever be expected.
And if anybody has the opportunity to be able to work for an individual like this, there's no way that you can't benefit from it over time.
It's something that once you have it, you want to hold it and keep it as long as you possibly can because those type of people only come into your life very, very briefly.

Christine Laperriere:
And you have to take advantage of that.
What's so interesting about this too is that when you're working with somebody, you get hours of access to them.
So you have this lovely, he almost sounds like a father figure who is really supporting and rallying you on.
And you have a lot of access to him because you're spending your working hours, which to me is why a boss is so important.
I spend more time at work, sadly, than I get times with my family in a week.
So it's a question of you're getting that much access to that person.
It's lovely that you could get so much support.
You hit the nail on the head there.

Rick Renaud:
They are like family because you do spend seven, eight hours a day with them, five days a week or six days a week.
And you do develop, especially with this type of individual, you do develop a bond that is very similar to a father figure or a mentor.
And I considered him both, to be honest with you.

Christine Laperriere:
When I was hired, I guess he was in his late 30s.

Rick Renaud:
He had just turned 40, I guess, a few years after I started working for him.
And at the age of 20, I worked for him for almost five years before I moved on to something else.
And I don't know, it's just a very difficult thing to explain when somebody leaves that type of impression on you that it sticks with you for the rest of your life.
I'm going back almost 40 years.
I think of this man right now.
And it still brings joy and happiness to my day whenever I think of him.
And I try, now that I have my own employees, I'm trying to be the same type of person as he was with my employees.
And I can't see that being a detriment to anybody that works for me because the positive impact that it had on me as a young individual far outweighs any possible harm that it could do because it was an amazing experience.
And I know that I am a better person because of it and because of him.
And I kept in contact with him after I left the store.
We would talk weekly.
And I invited him to my wedding.
Him and his wife were both invited to my wedding.
Unfortunately, about three years ago, he passed away.
I went and visited him, myself, and a couple of other past employees that worked for him.
We went and visited him, I guess, about maybe a month before he passed away.
And he had changed drastically.
He was quite ill at the time.
He was suffering from a liver disorder.
And his mind has started to go.
He remembered us, but he couldn't remember that he sold his store.
He was asking questions, you know, is the store still open?

Christine Laperriere:
Who's running it now?

Rick Renaud:
The store has since closed and the building is no longer there.
It was very sad to see a man that was so influential in the development of who I became reduced to the shell that he was at that point.
It broke my heart to see him.
But every once in a while during our conversation that day, you would see a little glimpse of him appear now and then.

Christine Laperriere:
The jokester and the funny guy and the guy that always made you feel good.
And the guy that always had your back whenever you needed it.

Rick Renaud:
But it was very sad to see that he had been reduced to this state because he wasn't anything close to what he was when we were all working together.
And the day that I heard that one of the other employees had called me and said that he had passed away, Christine, that the sense of loss that I felt at that moment, the devastation that came over me was as if I had lost one of my own parents.
I knew it was going to affect me when I knew, you know, at that point we knew it was only a matter of time.
But when I finally got the word that he had passed away, it was an absolute shock.
We all went to his memorial.
No surprise that the hall that we were in was absolutely packed.
He had touched so many lives over the years.
He had so many people that, you know, adored him and looked up to him.
And it's just, it's sad to know that it's that time that people really realized what they had.
I'm sure he knew that he touched some people's lives over the years, but I don't think he realized how much of an impact he made on so many people.
And I'm just thinking about it now.
I'm getting, I'm getting choked up and I'm getting a little emotional about it because he was such an amazing, amazing individual to work with.
And I dearly, dearly miss him to this day.
Almost as much as I miss my own father who passed away almost 10 years ago.
It's a fantastic experience to have.
And I am so glad that I had the opportunity to work for such an amazing individual.
But it's, yeah, it was, it's bittersweet at the end.

Christine Laperriere:
It is, but, you know, I guess to me, maybe I'm being overly optimistic, but like what a powerful use of a life.
Like what a powerful way to make an impact.

Rick Renaud:
You know, there's, there's an old saying that I, that I've heard many, many times over the years is in a hundred years from now, it won't matter what kind of car you drive, how big a house you have, or how much money you have in your bank.
What will matter is the impact that you've had on the people around you.

Christine Laperriere:
Now, I'm imagining this is the question that's coming for you next.
But, you know, when you talk about his leadership impacting the type of leader you are, like this is where to me, these are called the butterfly effect, right?
So one person leads, they show you how it can be done and you lead the same way.
So if he had impact over all those people packed at his memorial and they all changed their behavior just a little bit as a reflection of having known him, like, wow, what a powerful impact.

Rick Renaud:
He, yeah, there's no question in my mind that the, the legacy that he left behind to the people that he worked with and the people that worked for him will stand the test of time.
In my view, there's no question about it.
He was a larger than life individual and I am a 100% better person today than I would have been if I had never met him.
The impact that he left on me and to this day, I still speak to his wife now and then, you know, she's, she's moved to Montreal to be closer to her kids and her grandkids now.
No, I try and keep in contact with her every once in a while and, you know, we'll chat through Facebook and stuff when we get a chance.
You're still family.

Christine Laperriere:
Exactly.

Rick Renaud:
That connection has never lost and even with, you know, past employees that we, that we all work together to this day, we still try and reach out to each other every once in a while to see how everybody's doing.
And, you know, when we do get a chance, we like to get together for a meal and just have a few laughs and enjoy each other's company.
But yeah, it was an amazing experience.
And I think today a lot of young people may not have that opportunity because those types of individuals are very few and far between.
And I think if you ever get a chance to work for an individual who gives you not only the opportunity, but the capacity to do things on your own and to make mistakes and to learn from them and to grow is a learning experience that you will never get in school, that you will never have anywhere else.
If you do find yourself in a situation where you're working for somebody who you may look up to or may look to for guidance, by all means cherish that relationship because you never know when it's going to end and you never know when that experience is going to benefit you later on in life.
I always try and explain to my employees that we work together as a team.
There is no hierarchy in my company.
We all have the same goal and we all have the same work to do.
And if you find yourself in a situation where you find it's too challenging or you don't have the answers, don't feel like you're a failure for reaching out to me for advice because that's what I'm here for.
And I look forward to those conversations where we can brainstorm as a team and come up with a solution to a situation.
And he was the reason why that is the way I am today because that's the way he treated us and that's the way that we work together.
And so far I think my employees are quite happy with the way things are going and I hope that everybody ever has a chance to be able to have that experience as I did.

Christine Laperriere:
That's amazing.
That's absolutely amazing.
And I guess I have one more question.
You know, in my world, obviously, I spend a lot of time hands-on with leaders trying to help them develop some best boss ever skills.
And so one of the questions that comes up every time a company makes an investment in a leader to help them grow, there's always this question around return on investment, right?
So I like to ask anybody that's worked for a best boss ever, what do you think the impact on the business was?
What was the impact on the numbers or the impact on...
You know, to me, it's not just...
I mean, not only is it this incredible feeling of the father figure that you experienced, but it's good for business too.
It's a win-win.
So I'm just curious.
Can you tell me what you think the financial impact or maybe even the benefits of the business, what did they experience?

Rick Renaud:
Well, I think the benefit to the financial aspect of things, I think, was we did work hard for him.
It was not a chore to do because we wanted to do it because he empowered us to make those decisions and to succeed.
And when the business succeeded, we succeeded because he treated us as if we were a very important part to that business.
In many cases, we were because we were the day-to-day face of that business.
The way we treated his customers reflected on him.
And we took pride in providing that customer service that was the keystone to success back then.
You got to think, this is a time before big box stores like, you know, Best Buy and so forth.
There were a number of little ma and pa shops like this in all of the national capital region.
And the only thing that differentiated you from the other was how you treated your customer and how you related to them after the sale.
It's great, you know, you go to Best Buy and you buy, you know, whatever component it is, a receiver, a TV, whatever.
As soon as you walk out that door, that transaction is over.
You're just a number to them today.
Whereas back then, your customers were part of your success.
You catered to them.
You went out of your way to go the extra mile.
You followed up with them after the sale to see if everything was well, if they had any questions.
You don't get that today.
And it wasn't a chore for us to do that because it reflected back on the company that we admired.
We were loyal to that person because he treated us as if we were part of the business's success.

Christine Laperriere:
The customer experience was bar none.

Rick Renaud:
Was the keystone of any successful retail store back then was how you treated your customer.
You know, today's world is so detached, you know, with online purchases and so far.
There's no customer connection anymore.
You buy it on Amazon.
You buy it on whatever website you can think of.
The transaction is over.
You got your product, that's it.
There's no after sales service like there was back then.
And I'm not saying that today is a bad thing.
It's just evolution.
It's just the way things progress.
But there is some aspects of that time that we may feel sorry that we don't have anymore as the future unfolds and as we, you know, progress and develop and become more autonomous in our daily lives.
But I still see right now in this world, to your point, I mean, I think an interesting conversation is I see a huge opportunity still for small business.
I, for example, have hired, you know, a landscaping company and they have been phenomenal.
And you can almost sense this really strong positive culture and they're coming out to do yard work, which, you know, I got to tell you, like, not a lot of people are excited about a job doing yard work.
It's not a very, very glamorous task.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
It's tough, right?
And but meanwhile, you just see that this team is happy and this team is high functioning and this team is, you know, they are on the ball and, you know, just again walked into the house the other day and looked around and went like, you know, all the detail work was done well and thoughtfully and it was just like, it's a different experience.
You know, I haven't interviewed them yet, but I just kind of think to myself, there's something different about that team than the experiences I've had in the past.

Rick Renaud:
It's funny you bring up that point, the landscaper.
I actually had somebody, my wife and I have a rental property as well and I had a landscaper come in and do some yard cleanup and so forth at that place and they did such a great job that I brought them over to our house to do some springtime landscaping.
They aerated and detached my lawn and I said, just do the front yard.
I said, we don't need the backyard done.
Well, he did the front yard, but he also did the backyard at no charge.
When I came out and I said, you did the backyard too.
He says, yeah.
He said, listen, you guys have been great to us.
You know, we did all that work over your other property and, you know, we appreciate the business and we appreciate the fact that you trust us that I just did it at no charge.
Don't worry about it.
You know, it's that type of service and that type of action that goes a long way in the future because if anybody in my circle of friends or family says, hey, I'm looking for somebody to do some tree pruning or something right away, I know exactly who they need.
So they're going to get repeat business from me through my network of individuals.
It's just you're paying it forward.
So you're going to get the benefit of that type of service later on.
You're going to get repeat business.
You're going to get new clients.
It's just the nature of the game.
Word of mouth is a very powerful marketing tool.
And I still think that there's an incredible demand for small business and there's an incredible, it's going to look different.
Like you said, over time, it's changed.
It is going to look very different, but those niche little stores and those niche little areas, those small towns off the beaten path, you are going to get some phenomenal customer service and some fantastic experiences.
Yeah, you might pay a little bit more, but in the long run, it's going to benefit you a lot more because you're going to have that experience and you're going to feel good about your process.
It's not going to be a faceless corporation that you're looking at.
It's going to be somebody's family business that provides them with the meals on the table and the after-school activities that the kids do.
It's very important and it's the backbone, I think, to our society.
Small business is the backbone to our economy.
Without them, our economy would collapse overnight.

Christine Laperriere:
Absolutely.
I am a giant advocate for small business.
And to your exact point, I will buy from an entrepreneur over a large company when I can, when it makes sense.
I appreciate the in-person transaction and the opportunity for something, just like you said, like I really, or I want to buy from companies also that employ best bosses that are having that impact on their people.
If I know, for example, that a large business is very thoughtful about that, it means something to me because we're not just running a business where all we care about is the stock value.
We're also running a business where we actually care about the impact the business has on the people.

Rick Renaud:
That's right.
And as an employer, there's also that level of responsibility that you have to your employees.
They rely on you for an income.
So you better make sure that you're doing the right thing to protect their income for the long haul because they're relying on you for that rent payment or that mortgage payment or that grocery bill that you do every week.
So it's a big responsibility to have employees, but you got to make sure that you're doing the right thing to your clients and your customers to be able to sustain that for the long haul.
Because if you shut down your doors tomorrow, you don't only affect your bottom line, but you affect all the bottom lines of everybody that works for you.

Christine Laperriere:
Well, listen, Rick, do you have any last words of wisdom, tips, anything that you want to share with everybody?
I mean, I hear a lot of aspiring leaders, ones who are trying to be best bosses hear this show and get some inspiration from it.
Any final thoughts for them?

Rick Renaud:
I think the only advice that I can give anybody, and this is the best advice that I can possibly offer is treat people the way you want to be treated and the sky's the limit.
You will succeed.
It's just, it's as simple as that.

Christine Laperriere:
Excellent.
Thank you, Rick.
This has been an awesome conversation.
I really appreciate it.

Rick Renaud:
Christine, it's my pleasure and I'm glad I had the opportunity to speak with you today.

Christine Laperriere:
If you want to hear more, join me at christinelaperriere.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 35
Title: Encouraging my personality to shine
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Risa Crandall

Christine Laperriere:
Today, I have on the show, Risa Crandall, and I'm thrilled that I have her on the show because she saw on LinkedIn some of the great work we're doing around the best boss ever, and she reached out because it inspired a story about her best boss.
These are some of my favorite types of podcasts because somebody's thinking about that person.
As soon as they see those words, best boss ever, they're like, oh, I have one of those.
So, Risa, I'm so glad have you on the show.
Please just give a 30-second introduction so everybody knows who you are.

Risa Crandall:
That's great.
Well, thank you for having me, Christine.
I'm excited to be here as well.
Yes, my name is Risa Crandall.
I have been working in the digital marketing and media arena for over 20 years now.
Currently, I work at a Key Technologies, and I'm just enjoying the journey.
It's been a fantastic role for me, and it is one environment that has prompted me to think differently, think back to my best boss, and that's why it really sparked when I saw what you were doing.

Christine Laperriere:
Lovely.
So I'm going to dive in.
Tell us who is your best boss ever and why.

Risa Crandall:
Yeah, great.
So my best boss was Barbara Littrell.
What really made her a best boss is that she was someone who was very experienced and had grown up in the industry in a kind of a rigid formula as far as how you got started, how you got to the next spot, what you say, what you do, even what you wear.
And when I encountered working for her back over 20 years ago, she didn't embrace those things any longer or didn't, now that she was in a much higher leadership role, really decided to kind of think upon Soul Search herself to see what really made her successful and what she wanted to share with her kind of new and up-and-coming teammates, and I was one of them.
And she just really was the spark to enjoying what I do and being really passionate about my career.
That was at the New York Times when we started together.
So again, a very formal beginning, but she brought that personality and that spark to the role and again, really encouraged us to be individual and to embrace who we are, which really was a highlight of getting to know her in the early days.

Christine Laperriere:
So tell me what that was like.
So, you know, like, you know, what do you say and what do you wear?
And, you know, how does it look when you have a team of people kind of their individuality versus, let's say, trying to conform?

Risa Crandall:
Yeah.
And so at that time, it was even more challenging than I feel it is today, because then there was a model, right?
As far as who would succeed and how you really, you know, went to market, you know, with a very structured, now this is back before everything was so digital.
So your presentation, for example, was built for you.
There was no flexibility in it.
So in order to create, and I remember her bringing me into her office the very first time we were going to go out on the road together.
And she was, you know, again, quite senior to me.
I was not intimidated by her because she had just this wonderful open nature about her.
But we sat down to prep for the meetings.
And again, we had this, this set presentation.
It was very stead.
There was no flexibility in it.
And when we were walking through it and kind of deciding roles and responsibilities for the share, she said to me, you know, what's really important is to bring your personality to it, Risa.
You really want to have the people that we're talking to see the passion, see why we are different, get the words off the page so that it comes to life.
And so by bringing your personality to it, you're going to be successful.
And then dovetailing with me, also a very passionate person, I'm going to take that energy forward as well.
I am going to be really highlighting things that I know will spark to these clients.
And again, bringing it off the page.
And that just gave me that early, the early confidence to do that, to not just follow a script, but bring in the personality, bring in my style.
And she always embraced that from that very first time we sat down together and planned for that trip all the way through to the six years that we worked together.
That's amazing.
So what is your personality?
Like help me out.
What do you think you were trying to bring forward that like, I'm curious, I can see how it'd be autopilot, right?

Christine Laperriere:
Those, you know, it'd just be almost like just reading a script and people would go, well, any monkey can read a script, right?

Risa Crandall:
That's right.
I've always had a big personality.
I have always had a lot of energy, a lot of passion.
I feel that what you do in life, not only in work, you should be passionate about, right?
We should embrace what we're doing.
It doesn't mean we'd like to wash the dishes, for example, but just do it with some vim and vigor, you know, just get it done with a positive attitude.
So at that time, too, at the New York Times, it was again, very traditional environment.
And she really embraced having that, that spark to the way that we present and connect with clients and go off script and really tell stories and be a rich storyteller about what we could do at the New York Times that would really help pivot their business or give them an additional opportunity to brand and move sales across.
So we sat together, we did rehearse it, but in a very loose conversational way.
So again, it had, it had some breathing space and we talked about how telling stories is going to connect much better than just following the bullet points on a slide and hoping that someone's connecting to it.
We really talked about how the storytelling piece of it was something that would be much more successful than what had been done in the past, as far as staying to a very strict script.

Christine Laperriere:
I agree completely.
I mean, I spent 10 years working on sales transformation and one of the best things you can do is help people picture value through storytelling.
It definitely doesn't conform sometimes because that story's got to be real to you.
Sometimes you can't script a story, right?
You know, it needs to be coming from the heart.
So any other stories about Barbara from that best boss perspective?

Risa Crandall:
Yeah.
So if you do one is in particular, we decided to go out to see the Hershey's clients out in Hershey, Pennsylvania.
We were granted a meeting, which wasn't easy to get.
And we said, we're going to go out there and we have this new solution.
It was all about parenting, which of course Hershey cares a lot about parents.
And we said, let's get out there and just, we've got to go in person.
That was another thing that Barbara really instilled in me is if you can be there in person rather than any other form of communication, you're going to be more successful.
So we're going to get in the car and we're going to drive on out there.
The three hours, four hour drive.
She lived two hours further than I.
So she said, but she was a very early morning person like me.
That's what we also really think.
So she said, I'm going to drive on over and pick you up.
I was living in New York City at the time.
I'm going to pick you up at four 30 in the morning.
And we're going to drive our way out there to Hershey, Pennsylvania.
We're just going to have a grand old time.
We're going to have these meetings and we're going to drive on back.
I'm going to drop you back off in the city.
And then I'm going to head out to all the way in riverhead, Long Island.
And I said, wow, that's a, that's a big day.
And I love those kind of days, but I thought, do you, would you like me to drive?
Is there anything else I could do?
Nope.
You just come and be ready.
So I got up that morning.
And what I just also marveled at too, is in that early hours that she got up to pick me up and go on this journey together, I got in her car and in the cup holder was the hot tea for me.
Cause she knew I was a tea drinker and her diet coke and in the cup holder, just sitting there without, without even words, I glanced down at the cup holder and that thoughtfulness to write, to be in her position as an SVP to me a junior salesperson.
And she prepped us for the, you know, having the morning be kind of like our routine, though it was in the car for all this time and be together.
It just set the tone.
It set the tone that it doesn't matter what your level is.
We can all do for each other.
We can all listen in and respond to each other and not to titles shouldn't get in our way, right?
From just being great human beings.
So we set off on that journey and we just, it was like a road trip of joy.
It really was talking about what we were going to do in those meetings.
And we had a set of like six meetings too.
Cause if you're going to drive all the way out there, she would say, right, we're not going there for one meeting.
Absolutely not.
And I agree.
I'm all about efficiency.
And so was she.
And so we got out there, got there early.
We got ourselves organized.
We had already, you know, really prepped on the car ride.
And we went into those meetings with our high energy cells, but very prepared and knowing what kind of, what kind of program that we were talking to them about in this parenting category, got through the meetings, got all of their feedback about what would make it happen or what would maybe get in the way.
And she took copious notes too.
Even though I was taking notes, she was taking notes for a few different things.
I sent her in the car right back.
How come you taking notes when I was taking notes?
Didn't you trust my note taking?
And she said, no, I completely trust your note taking, but I might write something down that had a different nuance than you or you, I might've caught something that while you were busy writing it down, you didn't catch.
And then that we can compare notes.
And from there, we can really look and see what this client was all about.
So again, not just relying on me to be that person in the center there, but together, it was very, very collaborative.
And we came back and we talked to the marketing team the next day, because it was a long day.
We discussed what that program was going to look like.
And again, we built it together.
And then we went back out to Hershey, Pennsylvania, two weeks later and delivered the program to them, discussed it, made it very conversational, very collaborative, and we got the program.
So that was the kind of spirit that she brought and that I've now been able to bring in my career at this point and stage in my career is roll up your sleeves and get it done.
If you can help somebody do something or you bring a different perspective or an added perspective, do it because it's only going to make the whole relationship internally even stronger.
And then what you're going to deliver to your client.
It lives with me all the time because I still am a morning person.
And I really understand and embrace kind of where she was coming from.
Another time, though, which is kind of on a different note, we decided to go down to Campbell's, down in Camden, New Jersey.
We had meetings there, very different kind of drive, but also kind of got ourselves going.
And we got there and we had a series of meetings, but one meeting was falling around just at noon.
And there was no conference rooms available and the person hadn't planned for a larger room and there was going to be a collection of people.
So the person who we were meeting with and it said, I'm going to bring the team, but what we're going to do is we're going to meet in the cafeteria.
And we thought, okay, that sounds fine.
I'm sure it's a big space because it Campbell's too based on where they're located.
There weren't a lot of convenient places for people to hop out for lunch.
So the cafeteria was really the hub.
So we said great.
And they shepherded us in there.
We got into the cafeteria and it was probably about 1145 for this 12 o'clock meeting.
The team gathers.
There's 12 of them.
And we sit down at this very long again, cafeteria style table and we pull out the flip chart.
Cause again, this is back with flip charts and we pull up a flip chart.
And just as we start to do introductions and, you know, we even pull the cover through everyone from Campbell's comes into that cafeteria for lunch.
It's lunch hour.
I will tell you exactly.
I would say Christine, it was the loudest environment.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Risa Crandall:
I could ever imagine everything from the people, the talking, the trays, the planking of the plates.
And she looked at me and I looked at her and I thought, how are we ever going to have this conversation?
Again, this is 12 people.
So they're sitting far away from us logistically.
How are we barely hear each other?

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah.

Risa Crandall:
If you were screaming, but then you're trying to have a conversation with all 12.

Christine Laperriere:
That's right.

Risa Crandall:
And so we kind of gave each other this look as it to say, we're just going to dive in and we're going to project and we're going to bring our high energy.
But I could tell the was also saying, I'm here for you.
So you're literally voice is going to get tired trying to do this for a full half hour.
So I'm going to come in and I'm going to make sure that we dovetail this together and that we're successful.
I could just tell in the look what she was thinking.
I could read her thought bubble.
So I launched in and flipped over that first slide of the flip chart and did my best to project over all this crazy noise.
And then a few of the clients kind of remarked that it was loud.
And I said, you know, yes, it is, but we're going to do our best.
And if you really can't hear us, please, you know, just go like this time out and we'll do our best to kind of even project further.
But she just, she could see where I could bring that forward and then needed to pause a little bit.
And then she came in.
So it became this beautiful fluid tag teaming that was very effective for many reasons, but very effective given this challenging circumstance of presenting in this very loud environment.
And then when we left the meeting and one of the clients brought us back out to the reception area said, I don't know how you did that, but I was sitting all the way at the far end and I could hear you and you were clear and you kept your energy strong and you didn't get flustered.
You didn't, you didn't waver at all.
You both just went in with the same passion that you would have if we were in a quiet conference room on the fourth floor.
So I love this because one of the things that I think is a really interesting nuance, well, first of all, it's a great story.
It is hard to pivot that quickly on a dime.
I know I've been there and I've presented in, you know, in cafeteria spaces before so I can really understand that.
But, you know, what I think is really interesting is in the first story, I hear this example of where she's spending all this time in the car driving with you.
And I'm immediately thinking in the back of my head, full transparency, I'm thinking, oh, I'm the one that drives to the meeting alone because I want the alone time.
I want to listen to the podcast.
And if I don't have to teach anybody else, I'm thinking in the back of my head, it's my time where she took that time and instead she was coaching you and getting to know you and building rapport with you.
And then in this second example, what happens is now you two are looking at each other and you're communicating with no words.
And so you're actually able as a team to tag team each other.
And I'm just imagining all those hours of getting to know each other, driving together, spending time together.
You got to a point where you could anticipate each other.

Christine Laperriere:
That's right.

Risa Crandall:
And that's a cool relationship that we don't get because and especially I think it's harder today even because we're working remote.
So like, how do you get to a point where you can you know what's coming next?
Most of us only can do that with our partners or our family members, right?
But when work environments, like when you know that person is, you know, you just make an eye contact and it's like, okay, I'm going to throw you the ball.
You're going to throw me the ball.
We got this.
We're going to, you know, and you're saying all of that without a word.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.

Risa Crandall:
It really is interesting.
And especially in our Zoom life, too, it does because you don't have the body language necessarily to see with your colleagues.
So, you know, with each of the members of the Aki team that I work with, and there's about 25 different salespeople.
And in my role, I'm with them very often and supporting them.
And so we each relationship is different.
I know where Caitlin's going to come in.
I know differently where Christine is going to bring a certain example to life.
I know where Marybeth is going to work, Amber.
So we've got it's about frequency too, right?
Being able to trust each other and having that frequency of cadence to know this is an opportunity that I can pop in.
Or even sometimes we might even be a little bit more overt about it.
And just the other day on a call with Amber, she said to me, Risa, can you pull up that example?
And so while she's continuing to talk, I'm pulling up the example that we know will really lock this meeting into a great place while she's talking.
We switch to my screen share, and then I can show it right on the spot.
So it's that unverbal piece of it.
But then also just being comfortable saying, could you pull that up so that we're really efficient with a client so that they don't feel like they're still wondering about something that we can really close that conversation in a positive way.
And all of those skills really came from what I learned so early on with Barbara to just be collaborative, to be cooperative, to help each other out.
And you're always going to be more successful when you can add one plus one equals six versus, you know, anybody feeling that they're kind of on an island on their own.
So I truly raise that in my role now.
And I bring so much of what she taught me to my work every day.
Oh, that's so cool.
Any other stories or examples you want to add here before I dive into any last questions for you?
Yeah, I mean, the one other that I can remember is while we were at the New York Times, she got very she was very into golf.
And I am not a golfer.
I love mini golf, but I do not like regular golf.
And so she found this opportunity for us to as a company to sponsor the LPGA.
Barbara's also very passionate about women and women in sports and women in industry, just elevating women, which I also really appreciate it.
And coming from the New York Times, which was at that time and, you know, just a very male dominated organization.
And so she found this opportunity for us to spot as a company to sponsor the LPGA and kind of dive in.
We had never done any sports marketing.
I had never done any sports marketing before.
And when it was first presented to the sales team, I remember thinking, how does what does this have to do with what we do?
You know, this is very different.
We are not adept at this.
We're going to really need to learn.
And when I asked her about it, she said, we just have to dive in.
We're going to learn as we go.
We're going to learn together and we're going to get there.
And then I felt comfortable.
There really aren't any major mistakes if you have people there to support you.
And we went out there and spoke to brands about sponsoring this LPGA event that we had.
And we were very successful very quickly in kind of round one.
And we decided to keep it a little bit more tight as far as the number of sponsors, not to overextend ourselves.
And that was her guidance as well.
And then when we hosted the event and we were up in Stratten Mountain, Vermont, and we were all kind of taking a bit of a deep breath that we had done it and it was successful.
And I said to her, how did you know this was going to really come together like this?
Because this was so different than anything we had ever done.
She said, it's really just about power, positive thinking.
I just knew we could do it.
And it just stayed with me that we pulled off something that really I don't think anybody expected us to be able to do.
Now, here were clients that we were able to spend time with again on that relationship building in a very authentic way that went on for years.
And it was just just truly gave me that understanding that anything is possible if you really put your mind to it.
And if you're also nimble and flexible that there's not only one way, right?
You might need to take a little bit of a detour over to the left and be open to that and be open to change.
And it really made a big difference in everything that I've been able to do on the side because digital is a lot about thinking one and then kind of pivoting as you go.
Brilliant.
And so when you think of the impact to the business when you work for a best boss ever.
So in my world, obviously I'm asking companies to invest in these leaders to help them be best bosses.
And the question always comes up.
What's the return on investment, Christine?
Why would I spend money on this?
So tell me, like, what do you think the impact of the business was by working with somebody like Barbara?
Yeah, I think that one of the biggest positive things that came from her approach was loyalty.
The staff did not change over.
And we all know if you have talented people, you want them to stay.
You also wanted them to be fulfilled and grow and stay with the organization not only because they're loyal, but because they're getting new career challenges.
But her approach brought loyalty.
There were many opportunities, especially in that early and mid part of my time at the New York Times where I was heavily recruited and I didn't go because I knew that the grass was right there and green and it was not going to be greener for me somewhere else.
And so I appreciated the environment I had.
I appreciated the work that I got to do and the relationship with somebody like her that I could continue learning from.
So it's really about keeping people motivated, keeping people on the team and really just having also lifelong mentors and friends in the industry that even once we both went separate ways at different companies, we've kept in touch.
And unfortunately, she passed last year and it brought back a whole flood of different emotions for me.
I had gone to see her about six years ago.
She was living in Sedona and I was so glad that I did.
But she is with me every day and that's the kind of impact she hoped to have.
And it is.
So having that kind of relationship with people and putting that effort in is a lifetime proposition.
And that's really where the reward is.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing, amazing.

Risa Crandall:
And I like to say to me this is kind of the butterfly effect of great leaders because as they influence lots of people that work for them, those people go on to be better leaders as a result.
And so I'm really passionate about this idea that it's really not just about the thing that you're doing that day.
Did you win the Hershey's business or not?
It really is not about that.
It's about leaders influenced to their surprise hundreds of people through the influence that they've had, a great leader, especially that's right.

Christine Laperriere:
That's right.

Risa Crandall:
And a not so great leader can influence those people, right?
Because you can really make somebody feel awful.
And that passes along in what they think leadership is.
That's right.
And she really inspired us to be ourselves, to be who you are, be authentic.
And it's going to come through in your work and in your life.
And that was just really valuable.
And I bring that to my team.
I bring that to myself every day.
I really try to think through that, be myself.
And I will say the pandemic has also helped with that because being Zoom wise versus in person allows you even a bit more latitude to have your personality shine right through that screen.
Let people see your green kitchen.
People kind of have a little window into your life, which they didn't always have.
And I think those are really important things too.
And so just as a kind of counterbalance, when you think of a leader that did not possess all the genius that Barbara did, tell me a little bit about what that was like.
Yeah, it just felt confining.
It felt that there was this model that you needed to follow or not.
It was really it was black or white.
And I didn't fit into this person's model of how to be a sales leader, how to fit into the organization.
And unfortunately, she did nothing to help it.
She really it was just kind of her way or the highway.
And I tried to learn and adapt a bit.
And then that came to a point where I realized it's just not the right fit for me.
Like there was just too much adaptation that would have happened.
And then I would lose myself and I didn't want to do that.
So and I did reach out to Barbara during that time and asked for advice.
And she said, it's not the place for you.
You got to go.

Christine Laperriere:
And that's brilliant.
Because again, you know, I think we don't talk about this, but I'm a big advocate also on mental health.
And when you're trying to use a lot of your mental emotional real estate to conform into a box that doesn't quite fit, it's quite exhausting and it limits performance.
Right.
We never get the best performance out of people, but it's also can be very stressful and very exhausting.
It can turn into health problems and mental health problems.
So I mean, yeah, it wasn't your place, but it's just too bad that that leader couldn't have made room for you.

Risa Crandall:
Yeah, exactly.
And when it was really just a difficult time there, I went to speak to some other leaders in the organization to just ask for their advice.
What should I do?
And one, I thought very wise woman who said, you know, we really wanted you here at this company, but I think we're not ready for you.
So I don't know that we will be, but she also didn't know me as well, but just cared and could see the emotional strain it was taking on me.
And that was her way of saying you should go find something that makes you happy and that will be ready for you right now, or maybe six months.
But this is a big organization that's it's going to take a while and may never happen.
So it was the kind of the vibe I got.
I remember feeling a little disappointed, but you can't make that kind of change organizationally as one individual.
And that's really what she was saying to me, too, is go be free, go do what you do.
I wish we could value you and we do value you, but I wish we could tap into you and really.
But it's just not it's just not our time.
And I thought, well, that's also a great leader to someone who could tell you that honestly and let great talent go because it's just the synergy is not there.

Christine Laperriere:
I mean, I had a very similar exit in at one point in my career.
And to be honest, it's so funny.
I kind of joked that they used to kind of hit me and say, get back in the box, get back in the box.
And then I left and started my own business.
And now I get paid very well to be out of the box.
And so it is just one of those like, you know, if you don't get too personally attached to why don't I fit, why don't I fit?
There can be such a much better road ahead.
But it is it's it's a feeling of rejection regardless of, you know, we all just feel that right.
We want to fit in and we don't want to be the one that can't fit in.

Risa Crandall:
That's right.
And that's exactly how I felt.
But then once I moved on, I was happy again.
And my skill set and my personality was fully embraced.
And, you know, it really took, you know, a few different folks to kind of have conversations with me so that I could feel comfortable with making that change and kind of controlling my destiny a little bit more than I had been during that time.
And again, a lot of it really comes down to Barbara.
And when we did get a chance to see her in Sedona and with my full family, my husband and my three kids.
And as we were leaving dinner and we sat by the red rocks and just had this fantastic dinner, my children said to me as we walked to the car in the parking lot, she's so you and you're so her.
And that just gave me the most amount of joy because to be anywhere near what Barbara is about, just that just touched my heart.

Christine Laperriere:
That's beautiful.

Risa Crandall:
What a beautiful thing to hear if your children see you as being as much as this lovely mentor was and somebody you aspired to be like.
That's, you know, you made it.
I really did.
I felt like now my wings were, you know, ready to even fly and soar higher.
And then when she did pass and I said, you know, she set me up to be who I can be.
And while I miss her, she gave me all that confidence and gave me that ability to embrace who I am and to be successful and to be positive and bring that to again, life and work.
So that was a wonderful experience to go through.
And I'm just so appreciative that I had a chance to do that and have my kids see that too, that that's what they should aspire to in their work as well is people around them that are going to be positive forces in their career and really give them those advice pieces and to support them and just give them the positive energy that's going to make them succeed in life.

Christine Laperriere:
Well, listen, this was fantastic.
Thank you so much for sharing your story.
If you have any final words of wisdom for leaders who are out there and they're trying to aspire to be a best boss, please share them.
But this has been lovely.

Risa Crandall:
Yeah, I would just say as my parting words is to just get to know people and give them that breathing room, let them be who they are.
They can be valuable members of your organization if they have their personality and they have their style.
And you could support that.
And it's a complimentary, you know, your style and their style as a boss is a compliment to each other.
They don't need to be the same.
They should be complementary to each other.
And then everybody's going to enjoy until very natural in what they do.

Christine Laperriere:
Thank you so much, Risa.

Risa Crandall:
Thank you, Christine.

Christine Laperriere:
If you want to hear more, join me at christinlaperrier.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 36
Title: Inclusiveness counts
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Atul Tiwari

Christine Laperriere:
Today, I am going to interview Atul.
I'll have him introduce himself in a second.
But I'm thrilled that you accepted my invite because I worked with you at your days at Vanguard as a leader.
I got a chance to see all of the great things that you brought to that culture.
And one of the things that I always thought was impressive is when I worked at Vanguard, I always said everyone that I met was just fantastic.
There was something really unique and special about that environment.
So it made perfect sense to reach out to you and ask you if you'd be interested in coming on the show.
So thank you so much, Atul.

Atul Tiwari:
Thank you, Christine.
And I, too, really enjoyed working with you at Vanguard.
And you certainly helped us quite a bit on the sales side in terms of building a terrific sales team.
So thank you for that.
It's great to be here.
Thank you.
My background is I'm a reformed lawyer.
Started my career as a corporate securities lawyer.
And from there, went on to a number of different business roles, including starting the ETF business for Banco Montreal.
And then, as you pointed out, I was the CEO of Vanguard Canada, starting up Vanguard here.
So it's been it's been a lot of fun throughout my career.
And after Vanguard, I was thinking about what to do next.
And I'm very passionate about fine wine.
My wife is as well.
She was the head of the fine wine department at Ritchie's Auction House.
And I always knew that fine wine investing was something that was established in Europe and in Asia.
But it hadn't really been done in North America.
And so I built a business plan, reached out to the company that's the best in the world at doing this called Cult Wines.
And we set up a joint venture.
And from there in Canada and from there, I've now taken on the role of overseeing the U.S., Caribbean and Latin America as well.
So it's it's a lot of fun building a business.

Christine Laperriere:
I'm only going to tell you, I'm just slightly jealous.
So when I saw that you went into fine wine, first of all, I knew that about you as a passion.
So that felt right on brand.
And and also, I just I'm only slightly jealous because it's got to be a delicious job.

Atul Tiwari:
Yes, well, it's it's a lot of fun.
And, you know, somebody had said to me that if you can make your passion, your occupation, you'll never work another day in your life.
And I really feel that way.
It's it's just wonderful kind of marrying your interests of, in my case, fine wine and asset management.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
We're going to dive in.
Tell us about the best boss that you ever had, or even if there were a few do share with us a little bit about what your experience has been.

Atul Tiwari:
There's definitely been a few.
And I've been fortunate through my career to have some wonderful bosses and, by the way, some not so wonderful bosses, which I think will as well.
But absolutely, you know, the best part, I think, of having experienced a number of different styles and leaders is you can learn from them and you can sort of select what you're going to become as a leader.
I think early in my career, I was fortunate because I had a boss who really took a lot of time with me to to teach me.
We would spend literally hours in his office with him imparting his knowledge about the investment industry to me.
So as a lawyer, it was important because I learned a lot more about the business, which makes you a better lawyer if you understand what your clients are experiencing and doing day to day.
So absolutely, I would say mentorship and sharing knowledge.
Those are traits, I think, of great leaders and great bosses.
My best boss ever, I would say, sort of embodies all of that.
And he was a very senior leader at BMO, Nesbitt Burns, Bank of Montreal.
He just was an incredible and is an incredible human being.
Just very kind, very experienced, always had your back.
No matter what what happened, he was he was in your corner and you knew that.
So you could take some risks knowing that that he was going to stand by you sort of thing.
And he was known around the company as as a leader that everybody wanted to work for.
And so I always felt fortunate to be working for him and reporting to him.
And people would always say, oh, you're so lucky.
I wish I was working for him.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
He had that draw.
So he had actually a magnetism where people were like, you're in a coveted position if you work for this boss.

Atul Tiwari:
That's right.
Absolutely.

Christine Laperriere:
So can you give me some stories and examples a little bit of what you remember from that time?

Atul Tiwari:
The one that really stands out is when I moved from being a lawyer to taking on a management role, my first role was to head up the mutual fund division for Bank of Montreal in Chicago, Harris Bank.
And so, you know, it was a big step for me just transitioning into a role like that.
And it was a bit of an interesting situation in that the previous head had been terminated for the independent board, having lost confidence in him.
So I was put in essentially as a turnaround situation and getting ready for my first meeting was interesting.
I had prepared a lot and was ready to talk about how we're going to turn things around.
And when we got into the meeting, my voice was shaking.
I just thought, oh, goodness, because it was a pretty high profile, big meeting.
And I pulled it together eventually, but obviously was nervous.
And so after the meeting, I spoke to my boss and I said, sorry, you know, I don't know what happened there at the beginning.
But, you know, I did turn it around.
And, you know, he said something that really just made me feel good.
Which was, you know what, that's all you're passionate about this.
And, you know, you're not going to go into a meeting being a robot.
You know, you're a human being coming in and expressing yourself the way you did, showed that you care.
And, you know, it was that's just sort of what he was like.
He always kind of found the good in anything and made you feel good.

Christine Laperriere:
I like that because that's such a good example.
I actually it made me smile when you said that because I remember meeting you for the first time and being nervous.
And, you know, it's it's funny because I do remember how disarming you are.
You're you know, you don't give off that impression of you should be nervous.
Right.
Like, so all of a sudden, a few minutes into our conversation, it was like, OK, he doesn't he doesn't need me to be nervous right now.
I just remember that.
And when we first met, because, you know, just because of that perception of status or that nervousness that that comes.

Atul Tiwari:
Right.

Christine Laperriere:
So that's neat that you bring that now to how you lead, where it's like you're a human, not a robot.

Atul Tiwari:
Absolutely.

Atul Tiwari:
And, you know, there's no need to be different at work than you are in your day to day life, I think.

Christine Laperriere:
That's amazing.
Any other things that you can think of that, you know, as you were working for this leader, I think that's a great example.
Other things that come to mind.

Atul Tiwari:
Yeah, I would just say, you know, I learned a lot from him about developing people.
And to me, again, as a great leader, that is not just something you do.
I think it's an obligation.
And so he was known for having developed a number of great leaders around BMO.
And so I think that is something that I took with me as well throughout the rest of my career, which was, you know, you really need to take an interest in the people that work with you.
You know, help coach, develop.
Those are important things.
And so I think that was another element that has influenced me, I think, over time.
The other part of it is just inclusiveness.
And I think he was inclusive before it was trendy, you know, to be inclusive.
He's, you know, a white male who's had a terrific career in life.
But, you know, he was very open in terms of the people that were around his table from a management standpoint.
And for me personally, I benefited from him bringing me into settings and surroundings that I wouldn't naturally be in.
And so when I talk about my passion for fine wine, it was Barry was a member of an ice golf club.
You know, he himself is very, very passionate about wine and very knowledgeable.
So not just working for him or with him, but also just how he included me in certain events with his wine group, for example, where you got to experience some fine wines that I had never experienced before.
And quite frankly, as a person of color, often I would be the only person of color at those events.
But, you know, that's something that I definitely also think I took from him, which was, you know, when you have the ability to include people in things that they naturally may not have been part of and to help either educate them around it or if they're interested, you know, coax their interests.

Christine Laperriere:
That's great.
That's important.
And that's so interesting because I didn't even think of that until you just said it, but that feeling of, you know, being included at a time when you didn't, you know, like you said, it probably wasn't trendy yet.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
So you might not have always went to environments and felt as included.

Atul Tiwari:
That's right.
Yeah, absolutely.
And so, you know, to have somebody as a mentor who brings you along in those types of environments is important.
I mean, and that's, you know, that's something I think all leaders should pay attention to.
I think we've talked about this before as well, which is, you know, whether you're a person of color or a female, you know, you're your mentor or the people that you work for or with.
It's important that they include you in those social settings, like outside of work, because that's, you know, let's face it.
That's where a lot of discussions happen and other leaders get to know you better and then will naturally promote you along the way.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
Very something interesting about what you just shared as well.
So, you know, the making connections in a social setting or in a social way, right, like building friendships.
I just remember distinctly when we were working on some of the cultural pieces.
And one of the things that scored really well on the team that that we both worked with was that the engagement question.
I have a best friend at work and that one scored incredibly high.
And I remember thinking how interesting that was, just given the fact that the culture felt so unique and different.
So it's again, very interesting to me to hear that correlation or that tie back to the fact that somebody made you feel like a friend.

Atul Tiwari:
Right.

Christine Laperriere:
Versus just a colleague.

Atul Tiwari:
Yes, absolutely.
It's that's a good feeling.
And quite frankly, you work harder for somebody like that because you feel like you're invested in the business and clients and success, not just for yourself, but also for your team and for your leader.

Christine Laperriere:
I think that's that's huge.
So then tell me a little bit about your experiences of the not so great bosses.
Like, what did they do that that left a mark and shaped the way you think about leadership?

Atul Tiwari:
Well, it's almost the opposite of everything I just said.
And one boss in particular, and I won't say the name, was somebody who, no matter what you did, would make you feel like you did something wrong.
And even, you know, even if it was right, you squirmed because you thought, oh, boy, you know, he's going to come at me with this or that.
And you never felt like you were on the same side.
It really felt like you were being grilled for a reason.
And, you know, in particular, one of my colleagues made a call and actually made the wrong call.
And he called the entire department in and berated her for having made the call she made.
And there was an economic impact due to the call that she made.
And basically, he said, you're going to be paying that back.
And, you know, she was more of a junior person.
And so those of us who were maybe a little more senior kind of stepped in and said, come on, that's, you know, that's that's not right.
We're a team, et cetera, et cetera.
But, you know, that's the kind of thing that would happen.
And it was it was a it was essentially a toxic environment.
And you could hear him sometimes, you know, with the door closed, basically yelling at some of your colleagues.
And it was not a good environment at all.
So I would say, you know, that's sort of the exact opposite, which is rather than always feeling like your your boss has your back.
In that case, it was, you know, you were scared.
You walked around on eggshells.

Christine Laperriere:
Like you said, it's almost the opposite.
You're waiting for your boss to stab you in the back.

Atul Tiwari:
That is exactly right.

Christine Laperriere:
The look over your shoulder at all times.

Atul Tiwari:
The hard part for somebody who has a boss who's insecure is that sometimes, you know, your boss, because they're insecure and maybe don't feel confident in their position, they want more control.
And, you know, that's a difficult situation because they do like to control information.
So I had a boss, you know, she she was very much that way.
And previous to that boss, you know, had a lot of interaction with very senior people.
But then when that boss came in, she said, OK, anything you send by email or otherwise to these senior people, you got to put it through me first.
Right.
And then you kind of get the sense that obviously she's controlling the message.
Right.
And I I don't think that's a good approach.
I think no matter who you are in an organization, the channels of communication should be open.
It shouldn't be filtered.
You know, and as a leader, you want that.
You want to hear from people whether it's a good thing or not a good thing.
Because, you know, obviously, if it's not a good thing, you can work on making that better.
But if you don't hear that, you won't know.

Christine Laperriere:
I can tell you right now, there's a lot of people listening to that and they can resonate with that.
So the controlling of information is a very interesting one because it doesn't look as obvious as yelling at somebody or berating somebody.
It's a much more like you said, it's driven from insecurity.
And it's very subtle because it doesn't feel as obvious and as wrong as the example you gave earlier.
Right.
But in the same breath, I see that at a lot of people.
They feel that right.
They feel not trusted.
They don't feel valued.
They don't feel brought in as the team.
So with the controlling of information really does kind of like break down a team, but it's so much more subtle because it doesn't feel, you know, it doesn't feel as obvious.

Atul Tiwari:
That's right.
And it's not an open environment.
And I think you need to sort of foster an open environment where people feel like they can, you know, express their opinions in a constructive way.

Christine Laperriere:
Oh, I think that's great.
So, you know, one of the questions that I always love to ask leaders.
So obviously, in my business, I'm an added expense.
Right.
As I work on the culture and I work on the people and the development of leaders.
And so I always try to understand.
I get this question.
What's the return on investment?
Right.
And so what do you think the impact is to the bottom line when you're working for a best boss ever or you're working for somebody who really is aspiring to operate at that level?

Atul Tiwari:
Yeah.
Well, look, I've never thought of you as an added expense.

Christine Laperriere:
Thank you.

Atul Tiwari:
You pay for your your your services and help by, you know, building much better sales teams.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Atul Tiwari:
And obviously does go to the bottom line.
So yeah, absolutely.
Yeah.
I mean, it's hard to say, Christine.
I mean, you know, there's a lot of intangibles there.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Atul Tiwari:
And it's hard to actually point to a bottom line impact of great leadership.
I mean, I think I think all of the things we've talked about just sort of make for a better environment for for people to, you know, work as a team to build a better business and service clients better.
And ultimately that translates to bottom line, I think.
So I'm not sure there's a direct you can't sort of measure it.
It's just something I think that we know it's it's an intuitive thing.
Well, now I can say that another really smart person also said the same thing, because that's I run into a similar answer where I'm always like, it's intangible, but it's felt.
And so even though we'll never be able to do a split and say, OK, here's what the business numbers would be without great leaders and here's the business numbers with great leaders, we're never going to be able to really have those two scenarios side by side.
But what I do know is just what you said.
When you build an environment that helps people perform at a much higher rate, the impact is there.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah.

Atul Tiwari:
And you know, and you can almost make an analogy to marketing, right, which is it's a constant tension between what do you spend to build your brand versus you spend to acquire clients.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Atul Tiwari:
And there's no right answer to that.
It's it's just, you know, that you have to spend something to build your brand.
It's intangible.
You don't know what that return is, but you know, you have to do it.
It's felt exactly, especially when it's not there.
When there's a vacuum of it, it's very noticeable, too.
You know, so it's interesting when you mention this, because it's it's always this I feel like one day we're going to be able to analyze or understand the numbers, but it's very tricky to actually put exact dollars to these things.
Right.

Christine Laperriere:
Yes.
Yeah, that's great.
So if you are going to teach or advise future leaders, the best part is that all kinds of people that I work with today listen to the show for different ideas and insights to be a better leader.
So if you were going to teach or advise them, what would be some words of wisdom or things that you would ask them to think about as we wrap this show up?

Atul Tiwari:
Well, I actually had somebody tell me early in my career that it's important to listen.
That kind of always stuck with me.
And so I think active listening is an important skill set.
Not everybody has it.
I think it kind of goes hand in hand with taking an interest in the people that you work with and understanding their motivations, understanding what drives them in life, you know, what makes them happy, what makes them unhappy.
And so I think that is an important trait to develop, you know, your active listening skills.
Sort of beyond that, I guess, you know, the other part of it that maybe goes with that is the empathy, right?
We all know that there are tough decisions that have to be made in business from time to time.
But, you know, you can always do things in an empathetic way.
And I think as we started the conversation, you know, you have to remember, look, we're all human beings.
We're all people with feelings.
And I think it's important to respect those.
And I think, you know, both of those sound both of those pieces of wisdom you just shared, they sound easy at first glance, but they're quite powerful when implemented.
That's kind of what I would say, because, you know, listening is such an interesting one.
People perceive silence is equating to listening.
It's definitely not.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah.

Atul Tiwari:
There's a quality, right?
And look, we've all been in meetings where we've had the people who come in and talk the loudest and the longest and kind of like hearing the sound of their voice.
But I think there's there's power in listening.

Christine Laperriere:
Absolutely.

Atul Tiwari:
And then that piece around empathy, too, which, you know, I think it gets lost quickly when especially I mean, you're in businesses where numbers matter.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Atul Tiwari:
And so you're always looking at numbers and, you know, financials and, you know, dollars and cents.
So it's trying to be able to balance the fact that the numbers are not the only story.

Christine Laperriere:
That's right.
Absolutely.
Well, listen, thank you so much for giving me this time.
Do you have anything else that you want to share today just as people are listening?

Atul Tiwari:
No, I think we we covered a lot of issues in the short period of time, Christine.
So once again, just thank you for for having me.
And it's been a fun discussion.
And hopefully some of the people who listen to this may may pick up something from from what we've been talking about.

Christine Laperriere:
And that's part of the giving back and sharing your experiences.
Amazing.
And then they should go find you on LinkedIn as the CEO of Colt Wines.

Atul Tiwari:
Absolutely.
Yeah.

Christine Laperriere:
They want to find out more about investing in top end wine.
They should come follow you, right?

Atul Tiwari:
But it's it's the place to come, for sure.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.

Atul Tiwari:
Thank you so much.
Thank you, Christine.

Christine Laperriere:
If you want to hear more, join me at Christine LaPierre dot com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 37
Title: Lift heavaily as you climb
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Jennifer Laidlaw

Christine Laperriere:
Welcome to the Best Boss Ever podcast.
I'm your host, Christine Laperriere, and today I've asked Jennifer Laidlaw to join me for an interview.
Now, Jennifer, I've got a chance to meet with you in your days at CIBC, and we had some really powerful conversations about the 30% club and the work you're doing in the diversity and inclusion space.
And I really admired your passion to changing culture and building more equitable cultures.
And so for me, it was just a natural progression to ask you if I could learn a little bit more about you in respect to what you've experienced in leadership over the years.
Thank you for joining me.
And can you introduce yourself real quick?

Jennifer Laidlaw:
Yeah, thank you so much, Christine.
I am so pleased to be here.
Hello to all the listeners out there.
So currently I'm doing an executive in residence at the Toronto Metropolitan University and country head of 30% club here in Canada.
I've held several executive roles in a variety of sectors, including a large Canadian regulator, a bank, and within the Ontario Public Service.
And more recently, I've been working with leaders to leverage an understanding of what I'm calling an invisible success factor, which I say is state of mind, to transform performance and business outcomes, unlock creativity and innovation and uncover resilience.
It's been a lot of fun.

Christine Laperriere:
That's amazing.
And we would definitely agree, I think state of mind is a invisible success factor.
I like the way that you phrase that.
So I'm just gonna dive right in.
So tell us a little bit about the best bosses that you've worked for and some of the experiences that you've had with them.

Jennifer Laidlaw:
Yeah, such a pleasure to look back over the years.
I've had some incredible leaders throughout my career.
So I'm just gonna focus on a couple of key elements of a few that really stood out for me.
They have really inspired and enabled greatness and supported me and their teams in building the conditions for our success and that of our teams and our colleagues.
And the first one that I'd like to start with is what I would call purpose driven leadership.
And I know purpose recently has gotten a lot of attention, but there are two leaders in particular that I worked with over the years that were masters at aligning the organization to purpose.
Each of them had joined their organizations and those organizations benefited significantly and surprisingly quickly from their immediate focus and sort of re-attention on their own purpose, but also uncovering and recommitting to the purpose of the organization with the entire team.
They also were then incredibly bold in leveraging purpose as a guiding light for strategy development and execution.
They made very difficult decisions that were informed by this process and made investments in key areas that were required to live out that purpose.
For both of them, status quo was not an option.
And I have to say, Christine, there was literally a buzz to the place in each organization that you could feel.
They essentially infused life back into the organizations and it was because they cared so much about the critical importance of the work that they were leading.
And I would say just, this is legacy work.
Purpose-driven work becomes legacy work.
And that's what I saw in these two leaders and it was very inspiring.

Christine Laperriere:
So can you tell me just a bit about, what did you see in their purpose?
What were they passionate about?

Jennifer Laidlaw:
Well, in each situation, they were passionate about essentially bringing attention back to what the point of the organization was.
And the impact that it would have.
And in each situation, it was not about creating purpose.
It was uncovering the original purpose of the organization and then recommitting to that purpose.
And what it did was, it created a really clear sort of decision factor.
Everything became more clear, not necessarily more easy, but certainly more clear about what was required of the organization, where the resources needed to be, where the investments needed to be had, where shifts needed to be made in order to have the impact that that organization was originally designed to have.

Christine Laperriere:
That's interesting when I think about that, uncovering the original purpose of the organization and then recommitting to what that is gonna be.
I can picture that because it seems that so many organizations kind of lose their way.
They're trying to be too many different things.
I guess you can feel that a lot of the times in the way that you even experience in organizations where it's like they're trying to be too many things or they've lost their way.
They're too focused on profit and they've lost the customer connection and they've lost the connection to people in their environment at work.
So I can really see how that in itself would be so purposeful, right?

Jennifer Laidlaw:
Yes, exactly.
And in one situation, when you're working with a regulator, it's very complex, but the intention is really quite simple and it's protecting the people of the province and therefore of the country.
And so getting back to that, really clarifying.
For the bank, that particular bank, it was about the original purpose really stemmed from the fact that it was one of the first financial institution to make lending available to regular folks versus business.
And it was about how do we enable regular people, all people to have access to what they need to make the best out of their lives.

Christine Laperriere:
That is very profound.
You know, I don't think of organizations thinking of everyday people.
I can see why that would energize people, right?
Because it's probably so many people that work in the organization are those everyday people trying to make the most out of their lives.

Jennifer Laidlaw:
Exactly.
And recommitting to that sense of, this is why we're doing this work.
Because it's easy to see the outcomes and it's easy to see what is talked about in media or the big deals and those kinds of things.
But those are the aspects that actually fuel the organization to be able to deliver its purpose to everyone.

Christine Laperriere:
Wow, I like that.
That's sending off some light bulbs for me.
So that's really cool.
So tell me a little bit more.
Can you think of any examples of what it's like to be in a meeting or be in a discussion or tell me like how a team solves a problem when they're in an organization working with a really wonderfully purpose-driven leader?

Jennifer Laidlaw:
Yeah, I think it comes down to where you put purpose in the conversation.
And it is something that you can use as a guiding light.
And so I think when you're asking yourself, is this aligned with purpose?
It makes it, again, really clear, but not necessarily easy.
And so when you're having a conversation about how resources are to be invested in, that's a difficult conversation.
But if you keep the end in mind, are we ensuring that the organization is positioned in the best way possible to be able to deliver on what we say and what we agreed and what we've committed to with our purpose, then those hard decisions become more clear, not necessarily more easy, but they become more clear.
And it is about paving a pathway forward.

Christine Laperriere:
So it feels like it helps people when they're debating big, complicated decisions, like it helps create that center point or that referee, right?
You come back to the...

Jennifer Laidlaw:
And a couple of, again, very high level examples, but in one organization, the decision to actually invest in a strategic plan at a time when the organization had a very uncertain future, there were a lot of points of view about that.
And some were thinking that maybe an investment wasn't the right way to go.
But when we came back to purpose, the purpose was to ensure that the organization was the best positioned to be able to deliver on its purpose in whatever uncertain future it was.
And so it really was the responsible decision to make sure that we were going to be able to essentially hand off the best organization possible for whatever sort of future was determined for it by making sure that we had done the work to actually prepare the organization to go through that process.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
That makes so much sense.
And that's really, that locks in that internal alignment so you get people there faster, right?
So that's amazing.
You know, one of the questions that comes up in my world, so I work with a lot of different leaders and I'm helping them navigate a lot of different challenges and people ask, what's the return on investment when you invest in your people and you help build some of those best bosses?
So I'd love to know in your perspective, when you think of how strong these leaders were that you worked for, what do you think the return to the bottom line was?

Jennifer Laidlaw:
Yeah, and you know, the leaders that I've been able to work with are quite high level and so their impact has been incredibly wide and deep.
And in two instances, they were able to show that in fact, one person can spark a huge shift in culture.
They can't do it alone, but they can certainly spark it.
And I think that, and then seeing just the feeling, the buzz in the organization completely shift from an energy perspective, it's palpable.
Like you don't need to have measurements to experience it, but obviously measurement is really important.
And I think, you know, as we've gone through what we're calling the great resignation or whatever way you prefer to reference it, the bottom line is that we're not getting engagement and resilience and trust right.
And I think that's one of the things that I would point to that leaders really need to be aware of and engaging with.
And I'll refer to an article that I think is really compelling that's out of ADP Research Institute and Marcus Buckingham's associated with a lot of that work.
And if you haven't read his book, Love and Work, it's a collaboration with Harvard Business Review.
You can also see an article in that magazine about it.
It is profoundly impactful, but they did the study in 2018 with 19,000 workers in 19 countries.
And the results are shocking.
And this was pre-pandemic.
The pandemic actually dropped scores by 2%.
So really quickly, I'll go through them.
Only 18% of workers are fully engaged, which means that, and now that's 16%, which means that there are 84% of your workforce population that are less than fully engaged.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Jennifer Laidlaw:
Only 17% feel highly resilient, which means that 83% do not.
What does that matter?
That means turnover, that means absenteeism, that means hard to hire because you've got so many open spaces.
Another one that I thought was really interesting, which is 14% of these workers trusted their team leader and their senior leader, 14, which means that 86% of our workers don't trust their team leader and their senior leader, which has huge implications to innovation, to commitment to the organization, whether they'll stay, whether they'll go.
And we know that one quarter of US workers quit their jobs in 2021, which is a historic high.
So I would say, Houston, we have a problem.
Every single leader should be aware of these numbers and developing strategies to ensure they make a significant positive impact on their teams.
And best bosses are in the game.
They're great leaders.
They're developing environments and culture in which their team members are fully engaged.
They're highly resilient and they have trust in their leaders and teams.

Christine Laperriere:
I love what you're sharing because first of all, I guess I don't have the numbers, but I've always felt what you've said.
I've seen those reports with Gallup.
I've seen those reports where they have said some really upsetting numbers, very similar, and probably smaller groups.
And the other thing that I find is that on the diversity and inclusion front, when I started tackling that problem, one of the biggest challenges I saw is that organizations figured out how to recruit great diverse talent, but because they were going to work for lousy leaders, the 14% that trusted their team and their leader, right?
So that means that we've got 86% that are walking around that don't trust their leader.
What I find is that, especially in the experience that I've had working with women is that if they don't trust or feel valued by their leader, they're out the door.
So organizations were really great at figuring out how to attract the talent, bring the talent, hire the talent, meet their diversity quotas, which is exactly kind of what it was, but they didn't know how to retain them or engage them or get the most out of them.
So I felt that that part of the equation was really missing.

Jennifer Laidlaw:
Absolutely.
And we know that there are a lot of employees that are out there that are paying a huge tax that have to cover when they show up in the workplace.
And that is exhausting.
It takes an incredible amount of time and attention to really recreate how you're showing up so that it is seen to be a value to the organization, which means that we're getting less of them and they're not feeling that they belong and therefore not feeling that their contributions are even valued, let alone meaningful.
And so it's a huge aspect for best bosses to really think about.
Right, excellent.

Christine Laperriere:
And then tell us a little bit about what you've experienced in a not great leader.
What have you noticed that really for you, you're like, oh, I hope I never do that.

Jennifer Laidlaw:
Yeah, I've been really lucky.
I've been very blessed.
I've had some phenomenal leaders.
And the ones that I tended to struggle with more tended to be more, I would say, indirect, not as transparent.
For me, it's just, it feels a bit like you're playing a game of telephone where the message gets twisted every time it's told and you're trying to figure out, read between the lines and kind of guess what they're trying to say.
And to meet up feels really risky and is also a really big waste of time.
And so I tend to gravitate towards leaders who are a little bit fired up, make it upset occasionally, but their passion and their commitment is there and they're able to just say things as it is and then we move forward.

Christine Laperriere:
I like that.
It's easy to follow somebody when you, like you said, when you just feel like you know what you're working with, right?

Jennifer Laidlaw:
Exactly, yep.

Christine Laperriere:
And so here's kind of my last thought-provoking question for you.
If you had to teach or advise future leaders on how to be a best boss, tell me more about how you would, what would you encourage them to focus on and any other tips or tricks that you've really seen in your career that help make leaders great.
Because the audience that listens to this show are people that are really sharpening the saw to be those best bosses.

Jennifer Laidlaw:
So I would, I've kind of narrowed it down to not three, which is the rule, but two, three, and then two extras.
So the first one I would say is what, exactly what we were talking about.
Create a psychologically safe environment for everyone.
Encourage people to say hard things versus just saying or doing things that make you feel good as the leader because a lot of people are telling leaders what they want to hear, which is, in my opinion, a risk gateway and a major barrier to innovation.
So that would be number one.
Number two is to intentionally create a team that is diverse and inclusive with a culture of belongingness and trust in which everybody has a unique contribution of the team and then supporting them to leverage that uniqueness in really powerful ways.
And I think that's the whole idea of a team is that we don't have all the same expertise.
We don't have the same knowledge.
We also have the same things that we love to do that really light us up when we're in the zone.
And so that's a way that a team can really learn to leverage each other.
And third, I would say to really understand and embrace the power of connection.
Creating rapport with your team, getting to know what makes them tick the things they love to do most in their current role, what they'd love to do more of.
Marcus Buckingham posed them red threads in his new book.
Gay Hendrix calls it the zone of genius.
So helping your team members to look for ways to accomplish their goals while spending more time in these flow states in which they'll be happier, they'll be more resilient, they'll be more productive, more innovative and engaged.
First bonus is really the power of a strong network.
This is, people get very focused on networking and I think the way to reframe that is to really think about a powerfully strong network.
It's not about just going at a meeting people.
It's about understanding that good leadership is a team sport and success comes from knowing who, not how.
That one for me has served powerfully.
And then the last one is to lift heavily as you climb.
Always looking for meaningful ways to pay it forward.
And I think this one I've seen more and more from what I would say are less traditional leaders who are breaking the status quo, who are being their own unique selves, who are able to be role models for others to sort of see it and be it.
And one of the things they're doing is lifting heavily as they climb.
And I think that that is the true mark of a great leader and a great boss.

Christine Laperriere:
I think that is fantastic.
That's probably one of my favorite, I'm gonna steal that.
That's gonna be one of my new favorite quotes, the lift heavy as you climb.
Because it makes so much sense.
I think as we're talking about so much around leadership so often, the conversation is around that individual.
But the idea of lifting others up to me is a trait of a best boss.
It is, absolutely.
It's a powerful one to keep in mind.
And who are you lifting up?
You should be able to answer that one right off the top of your head if you're really doing it.

Jennifer Laidlaw:
Yep, exactly.
And it's a great strategy for your own personal growth and development.
I know so many people who wanted to continue to grow, wanted to get to different levels in the organization and were kind of stuck because they weren't building their sort of proteges of the future.
So the more you bring people up into growth and expansion, the more likely you're going to be able to do the same.

Christine Laperriere:
That is a fantastic way to wrap this up.
I think this was fantastic talking to you.
Thank you so much.

Jennifer Laidlaw:
Thank you, Christine.
And I really had a great time.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
I'll encourage everyone to look you up, Jennifer Laidlaw on LinkedIn and they can follow you and learn a little bit more about you.
Thank you, Jennifer.

Jennifer Laidlaw:
Thank you, Christine.

Christine Laperriere:
If you want to hear more, join me at christinlaperrier.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.
Thank you.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 38 
Title: Ask for what you want
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Pam Allen

Christine Laperriere:
Today, I have Pam Allen on the show, and I am so excited for this one.
She is soon to be the CEO for MD Management.
And I was excited to get an opportunity to speak with you because I'm also getting an opportunity to work with your team at the All Advisor Conference.
And we're really talking about what makes amazing leadership, not just meet the bar leadership.
So thank you, Pam.
Please feel free to introduce yourself.

Pam Allen:
Thanks, Christine.
I'm excited to be here.
And yeah, looking forward to our conference where you'll be working with our leaders across the country.
MD Management is an amazing firm that I'll be leading.
We work with Canadian physicians and their families, which is such an important job, and I don't take that lightly.
And that is what kind of drives me in this role is the responsibility that we have at MD Management.
I've been with the firm for 16 years.
I started in Edmonton.
I worked in Vancouver and B.C.
I recently moved to Ottawa to take over the firm.
So I'm super excited about it and a little nervous.
But that's OK.
Nerves kind of mean that I still care about what I do.

Christine Laperriere:
Oh, that means that you're going to perform at your best.
So I'm just going to dive right in.
When I invited you to talk about some of your best bosses, I'd love to hear who came to mind.

Pam Allen:
Well, I had a number of great leaders throughout my career that I kind of took little bits of things from.
But the one story that really stood out for me for someone that I worked with for a number of years, probably 15, 20 years ago, was someone who I actually didn't work for him initially.
I worked in another role and I saw what he was doing.
The team he was building up.
And I thought, you know, he needs a certain role on his team.
So I took a risk and I met him one day and I said to him, you know, I know you're building your team up and I think you need this role.
Here's why you need this role.
And I would love to take on that role.
And initially said, oh, OK, thanks for letting me know.
And I thought, OK, well, that he didn't accept it right away.
And I'm good with that.
But a few months later, he came to me and said, Pam, you're right.
We need this role and I'd love you to take it on.
So what that meant for me was he was willing to take the risk on me.
He saw something in me.
He was curious about what I was going to bring to the role.
And again, it didn't happen right away, but he took a risk.
I took a risk.
And again, it didn't come to fruition immediately.
And that's OK.
And working with him, he allowed me to play big and he allowed me the space to build the role and build my team.
And I was telling somebody this other story a few days ago about how I went to him and said, someone on the team wants to buy pens, they want to buy 100 pens.
And I just want to know if it's OK if we go ahead and buy these pens.
And he became curious and he said to me, OK, if you do this for this person, you're going to have to do this person and this person.
And soon it kind of adds up.
I'm like, OK, I've never thought of it that way.
So just think about when you make these decisions, the ripple effect that it can have and think of all the different angles.
Again, this is just a story about pens.
It doesn't seem like a big deal.
But as it kind of grew, I realized, OK, I need to think about this.
And at the end, he said, you know, it's your decision, but really think it through again.
He allowed me he was curious.
He allowed me to play in the space.
He allowed me to play big.
And I have a story about playing big, but I'll maybe tell that a little bit later.

Christine Laperriere:
So I think this is really neat, though, because there's two sides.
Like, obviously, you felt safe enough to approach him with a completely out of the box idea, even if his decision making wasn't going to allow you right out of the gate to go forward with it, which I kind of also think is a sign of a good leader.
He took time to reflect on that.
It didn't go away just because he didn't answer it in that moment.
So I think there's something special about hearing that story.
And also kudos to you, because I work with a lot of people who feel very impatient.
And so when a leader doesn't just say yes, they're immediately like disappointed.
And so what I hear is kind of this you trusted him enough to give him some time.

Pam Allen:
Yeah.
And I believed that I took a risk.
I thought the worst that could happen is he says, no, we don't need it.
It was OK.
Like, I thought I put it out there.
It'll come back when it's ready to come back.
And I'm OK with that.
But I learned a lot from him.
And he really, again, gave me that space.
He showed a lot of curiosity, which I think is very important in a leader.
He was open to my ideas.
And it just it gave me that confidence to play big, built my team.
So when I talk about playing big, what that means is working with a great leader will give you confidence.
My son's a hockey player.
He was a hockey player.
He's older now.
He doesn't play anymore.
But when he was playing hockey, he was a goalie.
And we had a sports psychologist come and talk to his team.
And he was fascinating.
And he talked specifically about when you're a goaltender or a hockey player, when you have that confidence, you play big, you take up space.
So you're more engaged in the game.
You see the game clearer.
And when you play big, you take risks.
And again, it's that confidence and taking up the space and allows you for engagement and seeing things clearer.
I was so intrigued by this sports psychologist.
I said to him, will you talk to my leaders?
Because a lot of what you're saying translates so well into leadership.
And he did.
And it was just fascinating how it translated back and forth between.
I mean, that's not new sports psychology and leadership.
But I truly have kind of taken everything I've learned from him as a psychologist into my leadership to allow others around me to, again, take risks, play big, be confident, be engaged and see things clearer.

Christine Laperriere:
And I'm just curious, I'm going to probe into something you said, talking about taking up space.
You feel I mean, obviously, you're stepping into a CEO role.
I support lots of female leaders, and I'm just curious, like, do you feel like taking up space was instinctive to you?
Or did you need to learn how to do that?

Pam Allen:
Oh, I need to learn how to do that.
Absolutely.
In so many ways.
If you go back to me as a child, I was very shy growing up.
I was very quiet.
I didn't talk a lot and just even little things to help me get into that mindset of playing big, taking up space.
Even I was at a lunch the other day and it was a long table.
It was like a boardroom table.
And, you know, sometimes you just go and sit at the corner of the table, you kind of sit back.
I thought, no, I'm going to sit in the middle of the table and take up some space.
So it's not only mentally, it's physically.
It's like when you're a leader, you need to command that.
And don't be don't shrink.
Take up physical space as well as mental space.
So taking up space is also about giving your team that opportunity to kind of think.
I really believe leaders need to be curious.
Asking questions is one of the most important things you can do.
And sometimes it's not even asking questions.
It's just allowing them to talk it through.
So what comes to mind for me is I had a leader that worked for me.
And when he was going through something, he would come into my office and he'd say, Pam, I know you don't like me to bring you problems, only solutions, but here's something I'm dealing with.
And I just sat there and let him talk it through.
I'd ask a question every once in a while, but I just sat there.
And at the end of it, he's like, yeah, I know what I'm going to do.
And then he walked away.
And someone said to me when I told him the story, I said, they probably thought, wow, Pam really helped me through it.
When, in fact, I didn't say a lot.
I allowed him to kind of talk it through and work it through on his own.
And I felt like he owned the decision.
I'm not the subject matter expert.
He owned the decision.
He implemented it.
And that just gave him that learning.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Pam Allen:
And, you know, we don't use soft, fuzzy words about like caring and loving.
But what I always think is curiosity is the socially acceptable word that we can use, because when somebody gives you space and actually you put your full attention on them, that's what it feels like.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Pam Allen:
I feel like someone cares and really cares about you.
You know, that you matter.
I always want people that work for me to feel that they matter, that they're contributing, because when you feel that again, it's, you know, they bring their whole person to work.
So they feel better as an individual.
It's not just the job they do.
They are a person.
So if you treat your people like a whole person, they have everyone has something going on in their life, good and bad.
And just remember that at all times.

Christine Laperriere:
And then I'm just curious.
You know, I'm going to go back to that great boss that you worked for who was curious and helped you play big and instilled that confidence in you.
How does working for someone like that impact your performance?

Pam Allen:
It helps you be a top performer.
And again, it's giving you that you may take some risks.
That's OK.
When you have confidence and you feel good about what you're doing, you kind of lift up.
And again, it's that taking up space, playing big.
I knew he would always have my back as well.
I knew that I could come to him when I needed to.
I could make the decisions.
And if I made a bad decision, we would talk about it and I would learn from it.
It wasn't about being reprimanded.
It was about learning.
So going through why I did it, what was the outcome?
What did I learn from it?
How will I apply that next time?
At the end of the day, we're in financial services.
Bad decision can easily be rectified.
So it's a matter of learning and support and knowing that I'm not going to feel like, oh, he wouldn't come bring me down for something like that.
He would help lift me up and learn from that.

Christine Laperriere:
And then the question that comes up, I mean, this is in my world, is when you work for a best boss or let's say you have an organization filled with best bosses, everyone always asks, what's the ROI or what's the impact of the bottom line?
And I know that's a hard question to answer.
When I ask you that as a leader and you're looking at the financials of your business, what comes to mind?

Pam Allen:
It is about people like looking, having a clear vision of the organization and caring about the art.
When you care about the organization, we talk often at MD about being purpose driven and bringing value to the client.
The bottom line is can be short term as leaders.
We need to look further out and look longer term.
And when you have great leaders, that's what they will do.
They will be constantly looking up, looking at the longer term, ensuring that we have a long standing viable organization and not short sighted.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
When you're looking anything you do, when you look right in front of you, driving.

Pam Allen:
So I just learned to drive a motorcycle.
And when I took the course, it was like they kept saying, look up, look up.
So it's always about looking up and looking out.
And great leaders do that.
And that's, you know, what comes down to the ROI.
It's not, again, that short term.
One of the leaders at MD management would always say as a leader, it's like a sailboat.
You're looking out onto the horizon.
And you're looking longer term to get to the destination you want to get to.
So great leaders are always, again, looking up, looking out.
And that will get you to where you want to be.

Christine Laperriere:
And that's what's so interesting is that impact to the bottom line.
It's like, how do you bring everybody with you for that journey?
Do people feel engaged in being on that journey with you?
I mean, we've seen the great resignation.
Big talk about how much turnover is happening right now.
I find that when I hear about those best bosses, if people are leaving, they're not leaving.
They're not leaving their boss.
They're leaving for some real growth opportunity.
They're not leaving for just more money.
What I'm also seeing is people come back to the table and negotiate for what they want versus leaving those great leaders because they don't want to walk away.

Pam Allen:
My first story, I asked for what I wanted.
And I believe in that as well as I want it to be with the organization.
And here's where I saw where I could grow and develop.
And I've done that a number of times over my career is.
And I when someone comes to me and says, here's what I want.
I really admire and respect that and say, OK, this is what you want.
Let's talk about how we can get you there.
It may not be tomorrow, but let's talk about the journey that we need to to get you on, to get you to where you want to be.
And as leaders, we have a responsibility to bring others up.
It's not about, you know, when I got into leadership, I knew it wasn't just about me anymore and getting to my it was about bringing up others along the way.
And especially as a female leader, I had a client at MD say to me one time, does your advisor force reflect your client base?
Because that's what we want.
We want you to reflect your clients.
So, again, it's about bringing everybody up, not just people who are like you.
So as a female, I want to bring up other female leaders.
I also want to bring up other leaders of different, you know, mindsets, different ethnicities.
I want to bring everybody up.
So we have that diversity of thought, of appearance, of, you know, every representing every aspect of the human life.
So that that helps with diversity, with bringing new ideas to the table, understanding our clients.
It's just, again, the ROI on that just is amazing on what we can do.

Christine Laperriere:
And it's got to be, again, it's great when you're serving an audience of people who are from all over the world.

Pam Allen:
Right.

Christine Laperriere:
You need to think, how do you get in the customer's shoes if you don't understand those different.

Pam Allen:
Right.
Yeah, exactly.

Christine Laperriere:
So I'm curious, have you had a worst boss?
What did you learn or observe maybe from some of the experiences you've had from a not great leader?

Pam Allen:
Haven't had many.
I've only I've had more great bosses than not great bosses.
But one that comes to mind was, again, early in my career, very early in my career, was someone who kind of tried to hold on to the information and the power.
And, you know, when you think of the theory of abundance and the theory of scarcity, he operated from theory of scarcity where he felt there wasn't a lot of power.
So I need to hold on to it.
And I learned a lot that there's enough to go around for everybody.
The theory of abundance is there's enough power influence to go around.
That was a big learning for me.
There was two of them that came to mind.
And they both had that trait was that theory of scarcity and didn't believe around multiplying the people around them.
There's a book called The Multiplier.
And we've talked about it in leadership meetings at MD, at Scotia as well, about multiplying people around you and not diminishing them.
And that was my biggest learning is I also have a story about Donald Trump, which I share often.

Christine Laperriere:
It's I'm all ears.

Pam Allen:
So about 15 years ago, I went to a conference and they had speakers from around the world on this big screen.
He wasn't there in person.
Donald Trump was one of them long before he got into politics.
And so you think, OK, you know, he had a bit better of a reputation at that time.
So he talked about surrounding yourselves with a players, you know, as a leader.
That's the one thing you should do.
And I thought, yes, that's what I want to surround myself with a players.
I want to surround myself with people and leaders that one day I would love to work for.
That was the only thing I've ever learned from Donald Trump.
I don't know if he still subscribes to that theory.

Christine Laperriere:
I question that.
But at one time he did.
And I did learn something from him at that time.
We'll let everyone go and look at the players he surrounded.

Pam Allen:
Yes, exactly.

Christine Laperriere:
Does he still still subscribe?

Pam Allen:
Yes.

Christine Laperriere:
Leadership principle.
But it's a true one, right?
That idea of surrounding yourself with a players.
And I really liked that point you made about scarcity versus abundance.

Pam Allen:
Yeah.

Christine Laperriere:
An aha moment just kind of flashed when I think of 50 different interviews about his best bosses.
It really does seem that that could be a core principle of those best bosses because there was no fear.
There was just no fear.
There was no fear in the interaction they were having with that employee that they were trying to build up or they were trying to strengthen.
It was really coming from a place of genuine desire to help.

Pam Allen:
That is a great point that brings to mind.
I love Brene Brown.
I have a couple of her books on my bookshelf.
I actually shared Dare to Lead with my team a few years back.
And we did kind of like a book club and re-read it.
One of the things that I love that she talks about that I take with me everywhere is honesty is kindness.
So when you're honest with your team and that goes around feedback, you don't want to wait, you know, for months to give someone feedback, immediate feedback, leaning into those difficult conversations, difficult conversations are easy to just say, oh, I don't want to do this.
And, you know, I've had those conversations with my team members and it can help build your relationships with your leaders.
And it helps them grow.
And I remember getting feedback one time from one of my bosses.
And she talked about something that happened months earlier.
And she's giving me this feedback.
And I'm still in my, she's giving me the feedback.
I'm in my head going, what happened?
When was that?
What?
And I'm trying to dig into what was I going through at that point that she's giving me this feedback?
So that was a great learning for me in that, OK, give feedback immediately, lean into those difficult conversations.
Sometimes you have to wait, you know, a day or two, which is fine.
Or, you know, I gave someone feedback last week and I waited till after the call we were on, called the person up after and said, you know, here's how I saw you showing up.
Let's talk about that.
And at the end of the conversation, he was like, you know, I really appreciate the feedback.
You know, here's what I'm going to do different next time.
So, again, it's being honest and leaning into those tough conversations, builds your relationships and helps grow those people.

Christine Laperriere:
And that's the best thing you can do.
Well, it's funny that you mentioned that, because another principle that I kind of picked up over all of the series of interviews is that candid, honest feedback.
You have to believe that the leader wants the best for you.

Pam Allen:
Right.

Christine Laperriere:
That's the prerequisite to making candid feedback work.

Pam Allen:
Well, you're doing it because you care, right?
If I didn't care about the person, I wouldn't give them the feedback.
I would let them kind of go along their way.
But saying, you know, this is how you showed up.
Good or bad is just the kindest thing you can do for an individual.

Christine Laperriere:
Absolutely.
And that comes up over and over in those best bosses that they really do feel that kindness from that difficult piece of feedback that they got as we're getting ready, obviously, to work with a large group of leaders from your organization.
And I always say, you know, for all the leaders that are listening right now, trying to figure out how to up their game.
What advice would you give people, you know, if they want to aspire to be a best boss?

Pam Allen:
I always say, be yourself.
You do you better than anyone does you.
Like you learn things from all your bosses as you go forward and you develop your leadership style.
But that's the advice I've given to a lot of leaders along my journey is be yourself.
Don't try and be me.
Don't try and be Barack Obama.
Don't try and be someone else, because that's where the genuineness of leadership comes in is when you're you're true to yourself.
And again, setting expectations with your individuals to say, here's how we how do you like to work with me?
What do you like to see?
Like getting feedback, being curious, asking those questions of your teams.
You're not the subject matter expert.
And the way they do something may not be the way you do something.
So a story around that is I had one of my leaders come to me recently and he said, I want to move this person into this role.
And my first reaction was like, no, oh, that's going to be a huge mistake.
You know, and I'm thinking that in my mind, I didn't say it.
I'm like, OK, tell me about, you know, what you've gone through.
We've had some issues with this person in the past.
And he went through, you know, here's the feedback we've given him.
Here's what we're going to do like to develop him going forward.
Here's why I want to put him into this role.
And I thought, wow, like he's really done his work.
He's thought this through and he truly believes in this decision.
So I said, OK, you know, not what I would have done, but I think you're making a great decision and I support you on this decision.
So I think he was a little taken aback.
He's like, OK.
And I said, no, you've done everything that I think you needed to do.
In the end, it is your decision, but I will support you on this decision.
So, again, it's asking those questions, being curious about who they are.
Someone gave me some advice is when you're kind of working a room at a social function is always ask more questions than you answer.
And people will think you're the most interesting person in the room if you ask more questions.
So as a leader, do that as well.
Ask lots of questions.
Be curious.
It's the best advice I think I could give.

Christine Laperriere:
I absolutely agree.
And I think, you know, it's amazing when you follow around great leaders or you spend time with them, you'll notice that curiosity there immediately.
I can think of so many different times where I've met people who are not curious versus very curious.
And it is it's a completely different experience.
But I'm curious, do you ever struggle with imposter syndrome?

Pam Allen:
Yes, quite often.
So my son has graduated from university and he got a job with the government.
And I asked him, you know, how's it going?
You know, he was very nervous about going into the job.
And he said, I'm learning a lot.
There's a lot to learn.
And he brought up imposter syndrome.
He goes, I feel like I have imposter syndrome.
So he asked me, he goes, I don't know if you feel like that.
But I certainly feel like that every day.
Like I have.
But you.
But I kind of OK, I feel it.
I check it.
And I know that, no, Pam, you're here for a reason.
You you've got the experience.
So some of that self-talk, but the fact that he's in use, you like he said, Mom, you're going to be the CEO of a company.
You have imposter syndrome.
Absolutely.
But I again, I check it.
I, OK, talk to myself about why are you feeling this way?
What do you know is true?
And what are you making up?
Like, what are the facts?
So I've had leaders come to me with stories that they're telling us.
OK, what do you know for sure?
What are the facts?
So that's what I go through when I feel like I have imposter syndrome.
But oh, absolutely.
And I think it's OK because I market and I check it.
I know it.
I label it and I work through it.
So I think everybody does.
I would be shocked if great leaders didn't at some point in their career have some sort of imposter syndrome.

Christine Laperriere:
Absolutely.
And, you know, I have a coach that's coached me for years and he is brilliant.
And his recommendation is not so much to try to combat imposter syndrome.
It's to get good at it.

Pam Allen:
Oh, I like that.
Yes.

Christine Laperriere:
And I feel like just like you said, it's like finding your process to work through it right so that you can move through it quickly.

Pam Allen:
Don't let it paralyze you.
Right.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
Like, could it be your intuition trying to tell you to stop and think?
Right.

Pam Allen:
Oh, yeah.
Listen to your gut is a great piece of advice.
I've listened to my gut over the years.
There's something there in your intuition.
And to your point, have that process to work through.
After I graduated university, I started at a credit union, actually, and I was trying to work my way up through different roles, different sales roles.
And I didn't get a role.
And I thought, oh, I wonder why I didn't get it.
So I went to the people hiring.
It was HR.
And I said, can you tell me why I didn't get the role?
And this is so sad.
But I was actually told, well, we gave it to this gentleman because he has a family to support and we thought it was more important to give him the role.
And I was, wow, OK.
So they used to have these breakfasts with the CEO.
And they would bring a small group of employees to ask the CEO questions.
So I'm like, hey, I'm going to do it.
So I asked him because there they didn't have a lot of female leaders.
Very few, in fact.
And I asked him, I said, why don't women get promoted in this organization?
I didn't share my story, but I just said, you know, from what I see, we're not seeing a lot of women being promoted.
And it kind of took him aback.
And he said, I'm not really sure, you know, what it is that keeps women back.
And he said, you know, I'll have to look into that and reflect on it.
They would actually take notes during these meetings and publish them.
So people came up to me and I can't believe you asked him that.
And I'm like, well, it's true.
And they actually ended up developed a new role and they brought on a woman and the CEO actually came back to me and said, you know, you said this at the breakfast meeting and we started to reflect on it.
So we brought this woman in.
But it's I feel it's really changed over the years that I've been in, especially financial services is seeing more women, the value of women and just overall diversity, not just women now, it's all kinds of cultures, ethnicities, LGBTQ plus bringing all of that together to bring different perspectives to the table will really bring value to an organization.
But again, when I started, it was predominantly not seeing women promoted.
Now we're seeing evolution, which is amazing to see.
And I continue to support it and see how we can bring more diversity into every organization.

Christine Laperriere:
It's making me smile because it that story aligns with that.
Ask for what you want the theme that's popping up.
Why are there not more women promoted?
Any additional stories or fun things that you want to share as you think about this topic around leadership and some of the ways that it shows up?

Pam Allen:
You know, leadership is everywhere.
No matter what level you're at, how big, small your team is.
Leadership is everywhere.
Everyone can be a leader.
You can be a leader with colleagues, peers, lead your team, be a leader everywhere you can be.
I believe in managing up.
And sometimes that doesn't have the greatest connotation, but sometimes you can lead your leaders and help them be better leaders.
And I appreciate that from my team as well.
You know, I had a situation with one of my leaders who I sat down with them and said, here's what I see is going on.
Here's what we need from you.
Here's where you can be a better leader.
And he was so appreciative of the feedback that I felt it was almost my responsibility to kind of give him that feedback as well to help him be a better leader.
So, again, leadership is not just down, it's up, around, you know, to the left, to the right, wherever it is.
Always be a leader wherever you are in life.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
Well, listen, thank you so much for the time today.

Pam Allen:
Thank you for this.
I love talking about this.
This is a great topic.
And if it helps support other people in their journey, that's the best thing we can do.
And giving back is is is something that I'm very passionate about as well.

Christine Laperriere:
If you want to hear more, join me at Christine LaPierre dot com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 39
Title: Taking the competition for talent seriously
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Jonathan Needham

Christine Laperriere:
Today, I invited Jonathan Needham to come on the show.
Jonathan, I invited you because I worked with you at Vanguard Investments.
I had a wonderful time working with you and I also really appreciated the way that you led your team in that environment.
You were approachable and down to earth and you created a very collaborative environment and you were just incredibly likable.
It was neat to see what that did for the rest of the team because so many people rallied and it was a great environment where people had a lot of fun.
I had to ask you to tell me a little bit more about your best boss and how they inspired you.
Thanks so much for coming on the show.

Jonathan Needham:
Well, thanks, Christine.
Great to be here.
I appreciate you having me and you got me blushing a little bit this afternoon.

Christine Laperriere:
There you go.
With that, can you just give everybody a little bit about your background and who you are so people can find you?

Jonathan Needham:
Yeah, sure.
Certainly.
I've been in the financial services industry for call it 25 years now.
I started in this business in human resources so I was a recruiter for one of the largest asset managers globally and then kind of worked my way up through the ranks of the financial services industry.
Most recently, I'm a vice president and director and lead of the ETF distribution channel for TD Asset Management.
I've been here for two years.
It's a great firm, great team and we're growing very quickly, which is very nice.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
Tell us who's your best boss ever and give us a little bit about who that person is and what they're like.

Jonathan Needham:
Yeah.
Thanks, Christine.
I've been pretty fortunate.
I've had many great leaders throughout my career, many great mentors too that weren't my boss per se, but who really influenced me in my career.
I'd like to say who I am today as a leader.
My best boss ever was so good, I'm now working for him again for a second time.
Someone you've worked with, someone you know quite well, Christine, and that's Jason McIntyre.

Christine Laperriere:
I think this is amazing that I did see that you followed Jason from Vanguard now to TD, which is pretty interesting.
That tells me a lot about he must be a best boss.
Not many of us go for a second round unless they're not a great boss.
Tell us, what is it like to work with Jason?
Why would you say he's a best boss?

Jonathan Needham:
There's no single one thing really.
There's multiple reasons.
I think first, he's authentic.
He's got a lot of integrity.
He's got empathy.
Those are kind of a few things.
The other thing I would say what I like about him is he's really got a relentless passion for the business.
He's just constantly engaged in the industry, what's going on, who's who, and how do we grow.
I'll say inspiring from that perspective.
I think the other thing that I really like about Jason is he's really good at empowering his people.
He has a very real and genuine interest in them as people, as performers of course, but also as people.
I'd also say he's someone who's very competitive.
You know him.
You've worked with him.
He's got very much of a sports coach style to his leadership, which for me worked.
One of the things I like about that is it's a constant kind of challenge to push you past your limits.
Certainly very supportive along the way, but it's that kind of coaching style that I think is what really drives me to working with them a second time.

Christine Laperriere:
It's funny because I always noticed with Jason when he saw somebody that was talented, he would just march right up and engage and get to know them.
I kind of thought that was an interesting quality where it wasn't like he just said, oh, nice job.
He was like, nice job and I want to get to know you better because I'm going to leverage you.
I'm going to figure out how we're going to work together.
He knows how to spot talent and kind of go after it.
I think that's probably an amazing quality because I noticed that the teams that he would build were just chuck full of really good people.

Jonathan Needham:
I 100% agree.
I mean, he does that today really well too within the organization.
You can tell when he says, keep an eye on her or keep an eye on him, you know they're going places.
He's always there to kind of help and be a sounding board and push them to do that because he identifies it pretty quickly.
Also, the team that he's created that I'm a part of, they're all veterans and they would be, I'd say, very sought after from other organizations.
The fact that he was able to get them I think is an accolade to his ability to identify talent and his ability to kind of have those folks want to work with him and for him.

Christine Laperriere:
So tell me, what is it like?
Give me some examples.
What's it like in a meeting with him?
I know he's had tough coaching with you, so tell me when he's had a tough coaching conversation, tell me about that.

Jonathan Needham:
Yeah, sure.
I mean, I'll start with the positive.
I think when you work with someone like that, it feels less like work and more like a game.
A game that you want to win, not just for yourself, but because you don't I think, as you know, and as you've seen, he's very candid, right?
And he's going to challenge you when he sees something that he doesn't think is really kind of showing your best self to others.
And so I'll tell you a story that's kind of a funny story is we get an opportunity to go to these industry events often and represent our company and our brand.
I've had our best report at these conferences with thousands, 10,000s of people.
I've been very fortunate that he sent me to many of those over the years.
And there just happened to be one that took place in sunny Florida.
And I would like to say, for the most part, I did a really good job of representing the group.
But there was a little spot at lunchtime, there was a speaker that I'd already seen.
And so I thought it was a good opportunity for me to go for a little swim in the ocean.
So I put, you know, put on my bathing suit, I didn't think twice, I walked through the lobby, and I went out, went for a swim, came back and went to the went to the rest of the session.
Of course, I just happened to pass by a lot of senior executives from Philadelphia at the time, which quickly got back to Jason that, Hey, did you know your guy was swimming mid day?
And so let's just say that was a much tougher conversation when I got back.
He's like, Really?
What were you thinking?
You know, could you not have gone the other way, or at least not done it at all.
And so I think, you know, the challenge is a positive challenge that he's not afraid to kind of call you out.
And I still get teased about that, despite the fact that that was almost seven years ago today.
He still challenges me publicly teases me about that that time.

Christine Laperriere:
So every time he sends you to an industry event, he asks if everybody's gonna see you in your bathing suit.

Jonathan Needham:
Absolutely.
Did I pack my speedo?
I know, should I be allowed to go?
All those kind of things.
He has fun at my expense.
Deservedly so.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
But that I mean, that goes back to like the feeling of friendship and connection and the ability to kind of keep it fun, you know, but I love the fact that he brought up that candid issue, because again, those are the things that a lot of people won't say anything, but then they start to hold a resentment.
And over time, all of a sudden, you're in trouble with somebody and you don't know why.

Jonathan Needham:
Absolutely that that, you know, he's always done a really good job of trying to protect me from myself.
And so you know, whether or not it bothered him or not, he knows that, you know, the optics of that may not be ideal.
And so making sure that I identified that is key.

Christine Laperriere:
You want to make sure yeah, you weren't in or standing with anybody that was important, right?

Jonathan Needham:
You got it.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah.
No, that's great.
Tell me also kind of what kind of things you notice when you're in discussions, meetings, you're trying to solve problems, things like that.
Tell me what is it like?

Jonathan Needham:
Yeah, you know what, I think one of the things I've always said is, and one of the reasons I followed him is it's, you know, it's uplifting to have a role model like someone you respect, you admire someone you strive to be like.
And I think that's a perfect example.
You know, when you ask about what's a meeting look like, I mean, first of all, if you're not five minutes early, you're late.
If you don't have an agenda, there was no point in the meeting.
If you don't have an actionable takeaway from that that meeting that was obviously discussed and collaborated and challenged along the way, then it wasn't an effective meeting, and he's going to let you know that.
And so I think, you know, that's what I see in meetings and all meetings is like, I can learn by example, because I know when he runs a meeting, he's going to be early, he's going to be coordinated, he's going to have input ahead of time, any pre-work would have been done.
And so he expects that of others.
And I think, you know, I learned a lot from that is it's someone you want to emulate.
It's a style that I think works.
And I think it's important, particularly, you know, over the last couple of years to make sure that you're, you know, you're meaningful and you're concise, and there's actual ideas when you're going into a meeting, just don't meet for the sake of meeting.
And I think, to me, that's what I've noticed when he runs a meeting, when he's a part of a meeting, it's always actionable.
What are we doing?
Why are we here?
And then kind of how does that trickle down to the rest of the organization?
It trickles down because people are action oriented, right?
I think what happens when you're running an effective meeting that is, you know, obviously outcome based, if you will, that makes sure everybody else is on their toes.
So they're everybody steps up their game to make sure that they're prepared to make sure that they're speaking their voice because it's, you know, be heard now, or you might not get heard, because obviously we want to go away with some takeaways on what we're going to do in our next steps.
And so I think it really drives results, to be quite frank, is it drives efficiencies, it drives results, it drives actions.

Christine Laperriere:
And then that kind of leads to one of my second questions that I love asking is, you know, in my world, I work with about 100 leaders and you know, companies are always asking me what the return on investment is in investing in leaders becoming great bosses, right?
So if you had to articulate what you think the actual impact of the organization is when they have a best boss in a senior executive role, like what's the benefit of that?

Jonathan Needham:
I mean, Christine, there's a very high positive correlation with the strong leadership and results.
I think it starts from recruiting.
You know, people want to work for people with good reputations.
I mean, a current example is the team that he's built here at TDS or management.
You know, these are veterans that probably had the choice of multiple places and they decided to come to TD, mainly for him first, for the firm second.
So I think that helps.
You can see that on the recruiting side to attract high performing talent.
The second is retention.
He really is.
And I think any great leader is really a developer of people and they take more pride in the success of others than they even do in the success of their own.
So, you know, that's kind of like that winning mindset is if others win, you know, we're going to win.
And so from my experience with him and other great leaders, he's always hit and exceeded targets from doing it from an established organization to a startup to turnarounds.
I think it's that winning mentality.
It's that empowering of others.
Like I said, two different places, very lofty goals and obviously hitting in or exceeding those targets.
So it's nothing but a positive impact on the bottom line, the metrics and results.
And, you know, leadership also with great leadership comes less disruption because you've got a higher retention.
You've got a better pipeline of recruits and you've essentially got people that are more comfortable with working with each other because they know they can obviously succeed in that environment.

Christine Laperriere:
I agree completely, but it's fun to hear that come from your perspective and what you're seeing, because I feel like that's what I witnessed.
So then when you think of bosses that you've worked for who were not the best bosses, they don't have to be the worst, but not the best.
Like, tell me a little bit about what that looked like for you.

Jonathan Needham:
Yeah, I got a couple of examples.
So I'll start with the simple one.
I'll do first names only because it's a small street, a small industry.
We'll just say his name, his but long story short, I worked for a company once and very briefly, and you'll probably understand why shortly.
And I think it was the second week on the job and it was the morning kickoff meeting.
This boss particularly said, oh, it's time for Offside Friday.
I was like, Offside Friday.
What British background?
Let's just say he spent the next 20 minutes telling a bunch of extremely offside jokes.
I could see the discomfort around the room, especially among the younger folks, especially among the younger female folks in particular.
And it was just like, are you kidding me?
Never mind in any timeframe.
But in this day and age, this was about 10 years ago, just not appropriate.
That same boss called me the following Friday where we were doing a sales meeting at 11 a.m.
and he was called in remotely.
He wasn't there physically.
So he kicked off the call.
He ran the call.
He's very eloquent.
I'm in the call.
But right after the call, he called me.
He said, okay, get the troops together.
Come to the bar.
I'm like, come to the bar.
It's 11 a.m.
He says, yeah, I've been at the bar all night.
I haven't been home.
And I've got motivational speech I want to give the folks.
I said, that's a horrible idea.
I can still tell that you've got, you know, you're some beverages.
Let's just say you're under the influence.
You know what?
You work for me.
Bring the team.
Okay.
Against my advice, I took the team there and it did not go well.
I mean, he did not set a good example for what a leader should look like, right?
He disheveled, you know, red face, so on and so forth.
And so worst boss ever.
I only stayed in that job for six weeks.
Definitely not a fit.
Six weeks.

Christine Laperriere:
Six weeks.

Jonathan Needham:
Six weeks.
It's not even on the resume.
Six weeks.
I had to get out of there.

Christine Laperriere:
That's pretty quick.
And offside Friday is a big red flag right out of the gate.
You know, big red flag and probably just like the rules around driving vehicles should be the same rules around leading people.
You know, it's like under the influence, like, you know, stay at home, get somebody else to drive.
You don't you don't need to lead a team at that moment in time.

Jonathan Needham:
Exactly.
Yeah.
The other other thing I would say is, you know, and I worked, like I said, been pretty fortunate.
Most of my bosses have been really good.
But but the ones that I find don't fit my style are the ones that aren't really willing to to empower their people.
They're a little controlling.
They're a little bit more, you know, asking you for every little detail following up on every little detail thing, almost like they don't trust you just can't give up the job.
And so I've seen it multiple times when you get somebody who's been a really good individual contributor, and they go to a leader capacity, they still have a hard time taking off that individual contributor hat, and they want to control everything.
And so I think that's where you need to determine, you know, should you really be putting that strong individual contributor into leadership?
And or if you're going to do so, make sure you're bringing in coaches that can help them in that transition.
Folks like yourself, Christine, ideally you in particular to help that.
Yeah.

Christine Laperriere:
Well, you know, it's interesting when you say that, because I think of the controlling aspect and go, what's interesting about that, when I think about it, is that it actually speaks to the layer even above that.
So if you have a great individual contributor, let's say someone like yourself, promote you into leadership, what you really need is a boss who enables you now to go build a really solid team.
Because if you can't put great people under you, that controlling instinct is going to pop back up, right?

Jonathan Needham:
100 percent.

Christine Laperriere:
So it just speaks to culture and why it's it's not just one dimension.

Jonathan Needham:
Agreed.

Christine Laperriere:
Those are good examples.
Like I said, I'm still going to be kind of giggling about Offside Friday, though, kind of.

Jonathan Needham:
I still do to this day, too.

Christine Laperriere:
What kind of what kind of jokes would I be telling if I was an Offside Friday?

Jonathan Needham:
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
We'll talk about that over a glass of Chardonnay another time.

Christine Laperriere:
But that's exactly right.
So if you had to teach or advise future leaders, so a lot of people that listen to the show are trying to kind of build that edge.
They want to be a best leader across.
If you had to give them advice or insight on some of the things that they could do, what would you tell them to focus on?

Jonathan Needham:
I mean, I think lead by example is so important.
So first know that people are watching and looking up to you and are going to catch on whether you're Offsite Fridays and or whether you're running effective, efficient meetings and empowering your people.
So I think that that's first and foremost.
I think the other thing today, you know, people are looking for leaders that are really focused on, you know, what's good, what's right and just for everyone.
So someone who's like decisions and actions are good for society as a whole.
So not just for themselves, but also for their companies, also for the greater society.
And so whose actions are guided by values and morals.
I think that's becoming, you know, more and more important as we grow as a society and as we focus more on doing what's right, right?
You're seeing that on the investment side of the business.
It's like, I want to put my values alongside my dollars.
And so I think that's really important.
One of the questions this came through, you know, you were there when I was doing my MBA course.
And one of the questions that came out to me that I thought was really important is that every leader should really ask ourselves, when I'm thinking about a great leader, would I, would I want this person to be my child's first boss?
So I think I have two daughters, as you know, right?
One's 15 and one's 12.
And so I think about what I want this person to be their boss.
Are they going to help provide that role model and that inspiration and the challenges that I think they need to, to grow and be successful.
And so I think as a leader, if we all ask that question, would, you know, my best friend or with this colleague be thrilled that this person is working for me, I think that would make sure we've got our moral compass in line and we're there to help develop and encourage that development.

Christine Laperriere:
Wow.
I love, love, love that.
That is really powerful.
And it's very insightful to me.
I think about that sometimes when I look at politics and leadership too, just because I heard someone who was running for office a couple of years ago in the United States and her point of view was to build a country that is the best place in the world to raise a kid.
It was like, you know, somebody asked her, what would you do if you could wave wand?
And that was her answer.
And I feel like it was overlooked at the time because she wasn't one of the front runners, but it was such a powerful answer.
It's like, what if you built a country that was the best place in the world for a kid to grow up?
And I remember thinking, well, that's really powerful.
And I think the question that you just asked, you know, would I want this person to be my kids first boss again, as a mom of two kids and, you know, thinking about what their future is going to look like.
I know instinctively that makes me even more passionate that we need more best bosses.

Jonathan Needham:
I agree.
Absolutely.

Christine Laperriere:
I'm a big fan of Jason's as well, because I like the fact that he does hold people accountable.
He's not winning the likeability award for the sake of just being liked.
He's really trying to win a game, like you said, or he's trying to win, reach those numbers, reach those goals.
He wants to make things happen.
So it's really not about just trying to be a nice person necessarily, but it's also like really having a lot of admiration and respect for the individual you're working with while you're trying to get everybody to rally together to accomplish something big.
I always liked that.
Like you had candor, you know, being able to call you out when you're at the beach.
But that's for real, you know, like I, and I think of that, you know, would I want that person to be my kid's first boss?
And I'm like, yeah, you know what, you know, like I want someone that's able to help them be their best self and, you know, understand the dynamics of business and there, there's multiple dimensions, but also be respectful to them and kind and not make them come home at night and feel deflated.

Jonathan Needham:
Absolutely.
I think there's not enough put on that kind of that kindness, right?
And that's, you know, unfortunate.
I've seen that at the bank in particular, where I think when I was interviewed, you know, Jason's boss, Bruce Cooper, and was like, wow, like, is he really that nice or you guys really want me that badly?
And he's like, no, that's just him.
That's his personality.
He just, he's just one of those individuals.
And so that's the type of culture you want to work for, where you want to hang your hat and hopefully retire at it.

Christine Laperriere:
Absolutely.
It's great when you can get that combination, you know, of kindness and really, you know, great integrity and making big things happen.
Well, thank you.
Any last words of wisdom?

Jonathan Needham:
What do I, what I got on?
I think, you know, it's, it's funny when I think about leadership and then, you know, I'll put my NBA hat on for a minute and give you a textbook answer.
If you will, I think, you know, great leaders today, certainly, you know, they foster teamwork.
They value the diversity.
They embrace change.
They encourage that work life balance.
They take responsibility.
They're personal.
They're resourceful.
They're positive.
They really have that competitive spirit.
I think they also today think have to think globally.
They have to continue to be coaches and build successors.
They have to continue to focus on their growth, both personally and professionally.
What I've seen work time and time again in leadership is, is really empowerment, empowerment with guidance.
If you empower your folks and give them the right tools to succeed, you're, you're going to be a successful leader and you're going to have a successful business.
And I think that, that is key as I work with more and more millennials.
As an example, they're just so quick to learn.
It's so quick to go find their, the answers themselves.
And so if you can kind of give some direction, you know, high-level direction and then empower them, you're going to end up with the, with some exceptionally strong results.
And they're also going to feel they've had a very large part to play in those results because they have.

Christine Laperriere:
That's fantastic.
And hey, I have one parting words of wisdom for you.
You know, tell Jason next time you see him that I stole one of his leadership pieces of wisdom.
I still use it in all my classes.
You'll hear, hear people say this.
Don't quit your job while you're still in it.

Jonathan Needham:
I love it.
I love it.

Christine Laperriere:
I'll tell them that was one of his quotes and I stole it fair and square.
He didn't have a trademarked, but I always thought you're talking about empowerment with guidance being, you know, a parting words of wisdom.
And I was just like, oh, you know what?
We got to add.
Don't quit your job while you're still in it.

Jonathan Needham:
Absolutely.
It's much easier to get a job while you have one.

Christine Laperriere:
Right, right.
Exactly.
I mean, and he also meant that in like the mental capacity, like don't check out and leave and ruin all that great work that you've done.
And I was like, yeah, I've done that before.
Why do we do that?
You know, you you've got this great report, this great brand.
And just because you're kind of ready for your next thing, you start to to leave the scene before you before you're ready.
Right.

Jonathan Needham:
Sounds like contractors, right, when they renovate the board of the project and they move on when they're 95 percent there.
Meanwhile, they just saw it to the end.
Things would work out better for them on referrals and stuff.

Christine Laperriere:
They'd have a happy customer.

Jonathan Needham:
Exactly.
So good, good words of wisdom, I might.
I won't steal it, but I'll remember it.

Christine Laperriere:
Oh, no, steal it.
He didn't have a trademarked, so it's officially it's ours to share now.

Jonathan Needham:
Fantastic, fantastic.

Christine Laperriere:
All right.
Well, thank you, Jonathan.
That was fantastic.

Jonathan Needham:
My pleasure, Christine.

Christine Laperriere:
If you want to hear more, join me at Christine LaPierre dot com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 40
Title: Leaving positive cookies
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Christine Andrew

Christine Laperriere:
Today, I have invited Christine Andrew onto the show, who I had the luxury of working with at KPMG.
And one of the reasons I wanted to talk to you, Christine, is that first of all, we had a great working relationship.
I really enjoyed working with you.
And it was a really neat environment at the time because I just remember, you know, it was very collaborative.
A lot of incredibly smart people in a room, but really working together to solve problems.
And that culture was pretty special.
So I thought it would make for a great conversation to find out more about your best boss.
Please introduce yourself to everybody.

Christine Andrew:
Thanks so much for inviting me, Christine.
I'm super excited to be here today.
So as mentioned, my name is Christine Andrew.
I'm the Managing Director of Strategy and Digital at one of the big fours.

Christine Laperriere:
Tell us who is your best boss ever, or tell us a little bit about that person and why you thought of them.

Christine Andrew:
So I was reflecting about this on the weekend.
I've been fortunate.
I've worked with so many amazing people in my career today and hope to continue to be able to work with many more in the future.
But one person sticks out for me, and it's because he is so people focused.
Actually, to kind of pull on the thread of collaboration that you just mentioned, he does a lot to foster collaboration.
But even more than that, he focuses on the individuals, right?
And really thinks about people as people and people as humans and not necessarily just as employees.
And for me, that's always really stuck with me.

Christine Laperriere:
So tell me a little bit about what is it like to work for that best boss?
Give me examples.
It's pretty inspiring, to be honest.
I'll give you a few examples.
So as I mentioned, this person is really great at kind of seeing the human, right?
Which I think has been even more important during the pandemic, but was critical even before then, right?
In terms of trying to develop a really strong culture and a really strong team approach.
So I'll give you a few examples.
So one thing that this person does probably better than anyone else I've met personally or professionally is listen.
And I don't mean just listen superficially.
Really listen in here to what's being said.
He believes that good ideas can come from anywhere, right?
Some leaders I find will only listen to other leaders.
Or only listen, and this is unfortunate, but it does still happen from time to time, only listen to males.
And as a female, someone who's always looked younger than I am, I found often in meetings, I would get dismissed, right?
Or just passed over or talked over, or, you know, if it's a vendor who doesn't know the organization, you know, they'll only speak to the male in the room or the person who on the surface appears to be the most senior.
And that's not a great feeling, right?
It can feel pretty crappy when that happens.
This leader never does that.
He truly listens.
He makes a point of acknowledging everybody.
And then what I've observed as well is how actively reflect on the feedback.
Doesn't always get implemented, but he'll actively reflect on what's being said and think about, well, how can we use some of that?
Or can we use a little bit of A and a little bit of C and make something really special out of it, right?
And in my experience, that's being pretty weird.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, that's interesting.
So I'm just thinking that, first of all, I love what you said.
I just want to reiterate this.
Great ideas can come from anywhere.
I feel like that point, again, like to live that is pretty impressive.
So that's like inclusion at the next level.
So like you said, it's not just listening, just being quiet so somebody else can talk.
It's actually really searching for the meat in somebody's contribution.

Christine Andrew:
Yeah, absolutely.
Absolutely.
And to build on that, I would say one of the things that I've learned is the importance of democratic leadership.
And it's something that I've personally adopted as well in different situations.
And obviously, you can't use that in every single situation.
Sometimes you just need to make a decision and move on.
But when you can use democratic leadership and get input from multiple people and understand multiple perspectives and get input from different parts of the organization and then come to a decision, I find it can do wonders at driving engagement, collaboration, alignment, cohesion within the organization.
And something that this leader has done in particular, which I thought was super smart, was he implemented a reverse mentorship program.
So it's a formal forum for rising stars to provide feedback and input on, you know, it can be specific programs within the organization.
It can be priorities.
If we're struggling with a specific problem, sometimes, you know, he'll throw it out to this table to get input from the, what we call the leaders of tomorrow to get input from this leadership table.
And some really amazing, unique ideas come out of that table.
And I think it's such a smart and inspiring way to approach the organization.

Christine Laperriere:
I think that's brilliant.
You know, when I graduated, I went into Chrysler's high potential program.
And they had always said that they wanted all of these really young minds to be our out of the box thinkers.
But one of the challenges that I say is like, you know, as soon as I got in there, everybody would smack me and go get back in the box.
Like, stop talking about, you know, you don't know how business works.
You don't know how things happen yet.
I definitely remember ageism being a bit of a challenge.
I mean, much to your point earlier about looking young, you know, you're getting ageism, which is frustrating.
And so when I hear that, I go, that's a brilliant way to harness all of that creative thinking and all of that energy without having to make those people feel like they have to be pushed back in the box.

Christine Andrew:
Yeah, exactly.
Right.
Great things can happen outside of that box.
You don't need to be in that box.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
Right.
And I mean, he's being intentional about that, which is fantastic.
So he's like, I'm going to tap into these people for very specific ideas.
Sure, we'll still go ahead and train them on the stuff that, you know, we need to do to get them to be functional in the organization.
But we can actually tap into that out of the box thinking.
I think that's really cool.
What else do you want to share about this leader?

Christine Andrew:
I think something else that makes this leader really special and unique is his ability to believe in and empower people.
I'll give you a personal example.
I had witnessed this person doing a really great job at, you know, instilling confidence and seeing people's unique talents in other areas of the organization.
But about three and a half years ago, I was leading our national corporate marketing team across the country.
You know, really loved that job, had spent, you know, the first 15 or so years of my career building my craft in marketing communications and building out teams and, you know, had this career map in my mind kind of all laid out in terms of what my future would look like.
And, you know, he came to me and asked me if I would consider changing directions and moving over to help build out our digital area of our business.
And I thought, holy cow, this is silly.
I have no business, you know, building out digital.
I don't have the deep technical knowledge that I thought was really important to be successful in that type of role.
But, you know, he kind of said, well, I know that you can do this and I know that you have the transferable skills needed to succeed, right?
You're great at problem solving.
You're great at building teams.
You have amazing resiliency.
You know, you're good, sometimes too good.
I'm pushing the envelope and wanting to do things differently.
And so he was able to see potential in me that I kind of overlooked myself, to be honest, right?
And helped instill that confidence in me to do something different.
And to be honest, that's been incredibly rewarding.
And if I didn't have that push from him to do something different and do something, you know, kind of scary, to be honest, but also really amazing in terms of the impact on the organization, but also the personal growth for me, I wouldn't have done it, right?
If I didn't have that push from him and if he didn't see that potential in me.
So he's really great at seeing talent in people and giving him the confidence to do things differently.

Christine Laperriere:
I hear that often.
So doing, you know, almost 50 of these interviews, I hear one of the traits that, you know, reoccurs over and over again is that boss that can spot something that nobody else has seen in themselves yet.
And, you know, if you think about it, it completely, first of all, I had a mentor that did that to me.
And I definitely think when I look back on my career, it was the game changer.
It put me on a totally different trajectory.
And I'm so thankful for that.
I think what you just said is the same.
I just interviewed somebody who was, you know, a teacher and literally ended up in a sales role in the financial industry and is a fantastic sales leader.
And it was all because somebody spotted that difference.
So I listened to what you just said and I go, I'm smiling because that's one of the reoccurring themes.

Christine Andrew:
Yeah, and I agree.
I'm so grateful that, you know, he saw that in me and gave me this opportunity.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
And it changes the trajectory of your career, right?
It changes what you see in yourself.

Christine Andrew:
And even the potential opportunities for the future, right?
And I would say it's also helped me as a leader really reflect on, you know, yes, this person is doing this role today, but their superpower is really this thing.
So how can we help support them and build that out so that they can be even better in the future?

Christine Laperriere:
And that's great.
So now, and that's one of the best parts too of a best boss is that you start to emulate the thing that you saw in them.
So that now spills over into your leadership, which is to me the best.
That's why I'm so passionate about this topic in the first place, because I believe that it influences so many people over time.

Christine Andrew:
Yeah, absolutely.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
So one of the questions that I always love to ask in my world, obviously companies have to invest in their people in order to help build up this type of talent.
And the question that comes up over and over again is what is the return on investment?
So if you had to quantify, if you can, I love to ask this question because most people can, but if you had to quantify what the impact is of working for a best boss ever on the business, on the numbers, what would you say?

Christine Andrew:
That's a great question.
So in terms of quantifying it, I'll do it softly that way.
I will say our organization has had unprecedented growth.
And not only have we had unprecedented growth over the past few years under this person's leadership, it's been through a pandemic, right?
So this person has the ability to put out, you know, what sometimes can appear to be an unachievable vision and motivate people to achieve it, which I think is pretty amazing.
Something else that personally really speaks to me, my values is we have made tremendous advancements when it comes to DEI or diversity equity inclusion in terms of how we think about our organization, how we think about treating each other, again, as human beings within the organization and really challenging each other around some of our assumptions or around some, you know, behaviors that we didn't even realize, you know, we were doing or doing it intentionally.
So, and I don't know if that would have happened if we didn't have somebody like this leader, you know, helping to really move the needle.
We've made, again, tremendous strides when it comes to how we think about mental health and how we approach mental health and the programs that we have for around mental health within the organization.
And it's not just, you know, we have a chief mental health officer, we have a chief diversity and inclusion officer.
It's much bigger than that in terms of embedding these things into our culture and into how we approach our work in each other every day.
That's exciting.
I mean, I'm doing that work and I think that is so important.

Christine Laperriere:
And it's cutting edge, right?
Like the best organizations are investing in that and the rest are waiting to see what the best are doing.

Christine Andrew:
And the thing about this area, it's an area that I'm passionate about and, you know, I do some work on this from a volunteer perspective as well.
It's an area where we're, well, I shouldn't say all of us, but many of us are learning at the same time, right?
I don't know if anyone, you know, the gold star has all the answers.
You know, we're all learning and growing and trying to be better collectively.
And that's one of the reasons why I find the space so fascinating and important, right?

Christine Laperriere:
Right, right.
It's an unchartered territory.
We just know it's time.

Christine Andrew:
Exactly.
It is past time, right?

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, it is past time.
That's amazing.
So when you've worked for a not best boss, one that maybe wasn't as inspiring for you, what were the kind of things that happened, again, share some examples and some stories, but what didn't work for you personally?

Christine Andrew:
This is a tricky one.
I've been fortunate where I've worked with a lot of amazing people, but I would say if, you know, you have a day that was less than awesome, there were kind of common themes, right?
And it typically would come down to not feeling respected, either not being respected for, you know, ideas and contributions, not feeling like your time is being respected, not feeling like your values are being respected, you know, not feeling like I was being respected as a human being.
So it's almost the opposite of what I described previously in terms of not feeling seen or respected.

Christine Laperriere:
And so, like, how do people do that?
Let's say maybe even accidentally, right?
So most leaders don't think that they're not respectful.
That's a thing.
Like, well, I'm coaching most leaders.
They're not saying, oh, I'm not respectful.
Most think that they are.
But I think sometimes that's a blind spot.
So can you just tell me, like, an example, like, what kind of things make you feel that way?

Christine Andrew:
You know, a simple one, because it's not really simple, but because I touched on it earlier, would be the listening.
But I think being people-oriented, not task-oriented, right?
And so task-oriented for me would be, you know, focused on the outcomes, focused on the deliverable, which are absolutely important.
Don't get me wrong.
Absolutely important.
But focusing on the task without focusing on the people, that's, I find, where the respect boundaries can get a little bit blurry, right?
Where, you know, if someone, for example, has a personal boundary, right?
Or they have a personal commitment.
And if it's only task-focused, outcome-focused, somebody might overlook that unintentionally, to your point, unintentionally overlook that.
And that's where I find, you know, feelings could get hurt, values could get stepped on, et cetera.

Christine Laperriere:
That makes a lot of sense to me.
I'm having my own aha moment as I'm listening to you.
I was just thinking about someone that was very task-oriented, who kept challenging me to work with their leaders at eight in the morning.
And I kept saying, I have two young kids at home, and they're not out the door until nine.
So it's a lot of anxiety for me to work during that hour when there's a lot of background noise and there's my concern of not being able to deliver at my best.
And so it was just, it was so interesting, though, because it was a battle.
Like, this person didn't understand this, so we had to go back and forth quite a bit.
And I kept feeling very unvalued, and I didn't know what it was, but it just like dawned on me when you said it to me.
I'm like, that was the difference.
It's like the person wasn't intentionally trying to be disrespectful, but it kept making me feel like something was missed, right?
And so task oriented versus people oriented, people oriented would have been, hey, we can definitely work around that one hour.
Let's find a solution where you can bring your best without it having to be in conflict with whatever's happening at home.
Yeah, exactly.
That's very, very great insight.

Christine Andrew:
Yeah.
And I think you raised a really important point that sparked for me is that that's how you really get the best out of people, right?
You would have been distracted, probably stressed, trying to manage this executive call at eight in the morning with little kids making noise in the background and trying to get off to school.
Whereas if it started at nine or nine thirty, you would have done a much better job at the task because the person was taken care of.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
And that's exactly it.
You know, it was just, it's such an interesting thing where I'm like, I know my performance is going to be X versus Y, and I want to give you Y.
Like, I want to give you the best me, right?

Christine Andrew:
And most people do.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Christine Andrew:
Most people want to give the best that they can.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Christine Andrew:
So we just need to help them get there, right?

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah.
That's a great example of, and I think I can really picture different examples where, just like you said, it's not that the task is not important.
It's just being able to combine the two ideas and then navigate some great solutions that incorporate both.
Amazing.
I really like that.
So that's a little bit about, you know, let's say the example of, you know, maybe the not best.
A lot of people who listen to the show are trying to figure out how to sharpen the saw in their own leadership skills.
So I would just say kind of in a closing, if you had to teach or advise future leaders on, you know, how to be a best boss, what would you tell them to focus on?

Christine Andrew:
This is tricky because I, I am still on my own journey to be the best boss, right?
As I think many of us are.
I don't think it's ever something that you, you know, you get that, you know, report card where you're finally the best boss, right?
I think we're always kind of learning and growing and developing and trying to get better over time.
But a few things have stuck with me.
So one, I would say kind of lead with empathy and be human centric because like at the end of the day, we're all humans, right?
And consider that whole person and not just the employee.
He kind of says kind of almost humorously but it really sticks with me is he talks about leaving positive cookies, right?
And so, and what he means by positive cookies is always leave somebody with something positive from the interaction, right?
Like whether it's a word of encouragement or a compliment or, you know, advice or guidance or even a link to an interesting article, right?
But just think about leading a positive cookie and something positive about the interaction so that they'll kind of leave the conversation, you know, energized and have that positive frame of mind.
So that's always really stuck with me.
And that's something actually this leader is being excellent at is just bringing a sense of humor to interactions.
You know, he's very, and this is hard given some of the, you know, tricky situations.
But, you know, no matter how serious the topic or how tricky the situation or, you know, the severity of the problem he'll find a way to make people smile, right?
And just add a little bit humor and positivity or focus on, you know what?
Yes, like this thing, and these are my words you would never say it this way but this thing really sucks, right?
It's hard, it sucks.
But, you know, we're gonna get it to a better place.
You know, there's a better future.
There's this positive outcome, this positive silver lining.
So really thinking about the positive aspect of things and having more of an optimistic frame of mind.

Christine Laperriere:
Absolutely.
And I mean, that mindset's so big and we know it but again, to live it is a little different.
So what does it look like?
Just like you said, so being in a meeting.
I love this idea of leaving positive cookies.
And this is what I was trying to get at with the show is like, what are those little things that a great leader does?
Not the big kind of obvious stuff.
We've all read about a lot of these topics and we're all thinking that we're doing them but there's something, there's a quality to a really great leader that it's more nuanced.
And so to me, that's such an example.
In a meeting, it's like thinking about leaving the positive cookie, right?
Or like, you know, just- 

Christine Andrew:
What can't you find on Google?
What's that leadership tip that you can't find on Google?

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, I think that's exactly it, right?
It's not tactical.
It's where leadership is an art.
And that's, you know, he obviously knows how to find that little piece of art in the moment and nobody gave him that in a Harvard Business Review article.

Christine Andrew:
Exactly.

Christine Laperriere:
I think that's a great close today.
So we'll challenge everybody as they leave to think about where in their work world they can leave positive cookies behind for people that interact with them.
So they can leave that meeting feeling that little bit of optimism or that little bit of positivity that would help energize them and keep them going.

Christine Andrew:
Because it's contagious, right?
I'll leave this conversation with you in a positive mindset because we had so much fun.
And then that'll cascade to my next meeting, right?
So it is, it's contagious.

Christine Laperriere:
It is contagious and that's the best part.
That's what I love about culture in the first place, right?
Is that these little things matter, right?
And then you go home at the end of the day and you're talking to your kids and you have a better frame of mind just because your day was better, right?
So listen, Christine, this was a fantastic interview.
Thank you so much.

Christine Andrew:
Thank you so much.
I really enjoyed it.
It was a pleasure to be on your show.

Christine Laperriere:
If you want to hear more, join me at christinlaperrier.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 41
Title: Don't pretend you don't have a life
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Elise Steffe

Christine Laperriere:
Today, I have on one of my besties, Elise Steffe.
And Elise, it's so cool because every time that we catch up, so many times you end up telling me about this great boss that you're working for.
And so even though I felt like it was a little bit of favoritism to invite you on the show, every time that you would tell me a story about this woman that you're currently working for, I'd go, this is what I'm talking about.
I get so excited.
And it was so much fun to talk with you about this leader that I couldn't help.
But I finally said, enough is enough.
You have to be a guest, even though there's a little bit of favoritism in here.
So thank you for being on the show, Elise.

Elise Steffe:
Thank you for having me.
I appreciate the opportunity and I appreciate you shining spotlight on nonprofit management because I really, truly believe that there's quite a bit of overlap.
Leadership and office organizations are kind of the same.
Nonprofits are just doing it with a lot less resources and fewer staff.
But it's all the same thing.
So I appreciate you adding that into your special podcast.

Christine Laperriere:
Absolutely.
Give everybody just a really quick insight into the work that you do today.

Elise Steffe:
Sure.
So I am working for an organization called Special Gifts Theater, and we do inclusive and adaptive performing arts programming for individuals that have developmental and cognitive disabilities.
So we're the only program in the Chicago area that's educationally and therapeutically based.
So we have around 300 students and peer mentors.
We have 11 live performances each year and seven different locations in Chicago and the northern suburbs, mostly musical theater.
We also offer dance and improv and it's just a highly adapted program.
Every element from costume script, the goal is for the student actor to be successful and the focus is on their abilities and not their disabilities.
And ultimately, we believe that the skills that they're working on in our programming will help them to just live more fully, be accepted and more confident in the communities that they live in.

Christine Laperriere:
My God, I'm getting choked up.

Elise Steffe:
Great program.

Christine Laperriere:
What an incredible impact.
And I bet those students really appreciate all of the work that you and your organization do.

Elise Steffe:
I think they do.
I mean, we're really serving the entire family and our peer mentors are receiving high level inclusive and disability awareness training.
And we actually have quite a few of them that end up, well, they stay with us.
They start at 12 and a lot of them will stay with us through high school graduation.
And quite a few of them decide to pursue careers in special education.
And the various occupational and physical therapy programs.
And the others, in my opinion, are future decision makers and leaders in the corporate world and the experience that they've had here.
They understand that people can come with lots of different abilities and they'll be making decisions on allowing people with different types of abilities to join the workforce.
So long run, I think we're doing great stuff.

Christine Laperriere:
That's amazing.
It's amazing.
So I'm just going to give a little bit of frame.
You and I had talked, obviously, about your career over the years.
And one of the things that I thought was so upsetting in some ways was that you had this incredible start to a really strong career in business arts.
You worked for some fantastic organizations.
And then you had two Matt Leaves and brought two sons into the world.
And now you have these two amazing boys that are kind of in their preteen years.
And truth be told, you take on the day-to-day domestic care of those boys, right?
They need you for sports and for all those things.
And so I remember us talking at one point and you just feeling so frustrated because the career opportunities were always this difficult fit.
It either required an incredible amount of commuting.
It required you to have to delegate care off to some other person for your boys.
And it just seemed like the work world wasn't suited for you anymore.
But for me, that was always such a struggle because you're so talented.
And I kept going, how have we not created the right type of work environment for somebody with so much talent and so much skill?
I mean, this was your educational background, too.
It's not just a hobby for you.
This is your career.
So anyway, so now you start this role with this current leader, and it just feels like things have shifted so much.
So go ahead.
Tell us about this best boss.

Elise Steffe:
Sure.
So I actually started in November 2020, the height of the pandemic.
I interviewed over Zoom.
I actually didn't work in person with anyone in our staff until I'm going to say six to eight months later, once we all had had the vaccinations and it felt safe enough to get together.
So even with those elements, I just felt like my onboarding and my relationship, my connection with her and the rest of the team was just, it was so much quicker than in other organizations.
And we just developed a rapport really quickly.
And I believe it's because she is such a good leader and so focused on communication and building this team.
We actually all work remotely, the operations team.
I think perhaps they didn't have such a bad adjustment to teleconferencing because we had those elements, but we hold really regular staff meetings.
I have two meetings a week and she's really, really open to sharing information.
I just feel like I have what I need to do the job that I was hired to do.
So yeah, I guess that's the first thing.
Just really excellent leadership.

Christine Laperriere:
I mean, tell some of those stories.
Like I said, I feel like every time we talk, you share another little what a week at work is like for you.
Share some of those.

Elise Steffe:
Yeah.
So I think the first theme that I had while I was preparing for this was trust and respect.
And I just feel more trusted and more respected than I have kind of in all elements than in previous positions.
And I will say that I've had a wonderful career and wonderful leadership throughout my career.
So I'm thankful to all of them.
But one of the first things that I noticed is she literally said the words family first, one of our staff meetings kind of early on.
I just, I've never heard anyone in leadership say that family first, that we're actually going to say those words out loud.
She has young children and I have young teens.
And the other people on our teams, two of them have adult children with disabilities that work.
So they have responsibilities to drive them places and care for them.
And some of them have elder care and grandchildren, all types of things.
So it's kind of like at all different levels, we all have things we need to do.
And I'm going to call it not distractions, but just other things involved.
So from the beginning, first of all, we had a good relationship where I understood her place because I know how hard that was to deal with the morning, getting everyone out of the house to the nanny or childcare.
I don't have that anymore.
My craziness is ahead of in like the early afternoon and evenings for the activities that my boys are in.
But we're able to talk about it.
We don't have to pretend that it doesn't exist.
And we adjust all the time.
If the meeting was scheduled for nine, you just kind of can center yourself.
If it's at 10, then we do it at 10, and vice versa at the other end of the time to just know that it is part of a working environment to be so flexible like that and acknowledge it.
I really think that everyone on our team appreciates that because your time and value is respected.
And I've told you many times, I think that this is the best run organization for this size.
It's a small nonprofit that I've been involved with.
I think it is the best run organization and multiple levels.
I've told all the board members that I've worked with on that.
And I could list many, many reasons, but I just think this kind of connection to actually caring about your colleagues and just really approaching this, that it doesn't need to be so rigid about the working hours.
I mean, I actually was hired and in the job description, it was flexibility.
And that was really, really key because even with young teens, I would like to be available to be around and kind of work around their schedules.
And it works.
And we're getting amazing things done.
We've been able to really grow our operating budget and our fundraising over the last couple of years.
And yes, I do think that I have been able to contribute, but I really think a lot of it is because we just have an environment where people are working together and there's no hard feelings or, you know, you're not going into it with communication problems.
I think we have a lot of really hard work that we do every single day for this organization, but it's not because of fumbles with communication and ego or, you know, none of that.
It's hard work because it's really, really hard and we're trying to make miracles happen on a little tiny budget.

Christine Laperriere:
I just want to point something out.
So what I love about this, this idea of family first.
Now I have heard many leaders say that, but I don't know if I've seen many leaders know how to embody that.
And so I really hear something very different, which is when I say family first, I really mean it.
There's zero consequence for you having another outside responsibility.
We're going to figure out how to use that as part of the way we organize the game, you know, and we're going to block and tackle and pivot because it's the work that matters and not these subjective guidelines that, you know, you have to be here at this time or else.
So it's really neat to hear because like I said, I just hear the difference between the mantra versus the actual execution of it, especially with an entire team.
So it's not even like she's giving you this special flexibility.

Elise Steffe:
Right.
Absolutely not.
Everyone needs it.
I mean, even if you just need, you know, a doctor's appointment or something, I feel like in the past, early on in the career, it was a big deal to kind of ask, like, I need to take Friday to go to it.
And just, no, just do it, just go.
And we're just, we're no longer pretending that we don't have these other elements.
And I don't want it to be completely, you know, gender-focused, but I guess anecdotally, it feels like it still seems to fall on the women and families that are figuring out all of this stuff, even if they're full-time or part-time, just, you know, everything with the kids.
And, you know, both, we both have partners, husbands that are very actively involved with the childcare, but it's still, I can just still see it's, you know, it's a default, like mom seems to be the one that's running the schedule.
And I just think more women in leadership and we don't have to play the game that we did before.
And also, you know, women of our age, we were just sort of told to do it all and have this career and have that, but the support is not there.
You know, I mean, I did have, when my children were born, I was very, very lucky to have really the highest quality childcare that was available, that was actually through my employer.
And I had a family medical leave that I was able to take.
So I got my, you know, whatever it was, 12 weeks.
But what they, what they don't tell you is that they keep taking your PTO.

Christine Laperriere:
Which is paid time off.

Elise Steffe:
Right.
And this has happened to many other women that I know.
It's paid time off and then it's taken so that you come back after having a child after 12 weeks, if you're lucky to get 12 weeks, and then you have to put them in a childcare facility and you have no PTO at all, zero, absolutely zero, right?
So you have to come back into this environment where you know your child's going to build their immune system and get sick immediately.
And that stress is just, you know, it's just so difficult.
And then you're supposed to pretend like you are not stressed out about all of these things that you, you know, you have going on.
And I have a lot of hope and confidence for, you know, the changes that are happening now.
And, you know, our children, that they're all of this silliness of no support and pretending that these other factors are not in place.
They think that hopefully that'll just go away.

Christine Laperriere:
And it's intense.
Okay.
Give me some more meat on this leader.

Elise Steffe:
Yeah.
So the next little element I have is I believe she leaves room for the magic.
Oh, I forgot to mention that too.
So we have a couple of mantras that we use.
So one of them that goes along with this is dream, achieve, believe.
So this is just, these are words that we use for branding.
And we also just infuse it to, you know, build confidence with our students that are participating.
We're trying to do a lot at this place.
They hired me to be the first professional fundraiser and to build out the fundraising program that was already in really good shape, I think, going into it from her leadership and the rest of the staff that were doing elements of fundraising.
But I was able to kind of come in and, you know, try to fine tune and grow all of it.
It kind of goes back to the first thing I said, trust and respect.
I was able to kind of, you know, break down and make suggestions for all of these things.
And she was, you know, truly open to it.
It's like, oh, we can make these changes.
We can enhance this.
Let's try this.
Let's try that.
But we're at a point now, post-pandemic, we actually did really well through the pandemic and, you know, more or less, I guess we're out of it and our programming is back to in-person.
So we're at a place with a new strategic plan where we're in a growth phase and kind of looking at the next steps.
And then myself as a fundraiser, my job is to figure out how to convince, you know, the rest of the world to believe in special gifts theater and to, you know, to support us, right?
We are, 75% of our operating budget comes from fundraising.
We're committed to very low tuition rates because we understand that, you know, our community has lots of additional expenses because they have a child with disabilities.
So we're committed to that.
75%, we have to come up with fundraising.
So I have to find all of these reasons, right, of why we want to support this place.
So when we're talking about it and kind of thinking the really big picture, you have to have room for brainstorming.
You have to be able to think really, really big pie in the sky, almost impossible, right?
And she leaves time in our interactions and our meetings for these really big, I'm gonna call them impossible ideas.
And there's no bad idea, like we can just really, really think big.
And like, I mean, honestly, just leaving room for that instead of just 100% focused on like what we have to do today.
I just personally have experienced many times when you're really trying to think big and getting into like, you know, the future vision, the answer is always no, we can't do it.
We don't have the resources.
We don't have this.
We don't have that.
And instead of it going into like a panic, no, it's, well, let's talk about it and let's think we just have like a really good collaboration where we can like get into this thinking big and future plans.
And then once we kind of have this vision, we're really able to work well together to kind of drill down and be like, okay, what are the steps that are possible or how can we pitch this to the rest of the staff or to the board or, you know, whatever the case is.
So I personally really appreciate that.
And you just, you want to have people feel comfortable kind of thinking big.
And not all of the ideas are great, but they, so far for the last two years working with her, we're moving in the right direction.
And I think it's worth it.
And I appreciate even with a hundred things going on, she doesn't need to do that.
I personally think that a leader should remember that they need that time.

Christine Laperriere:
You know, and I have to say too, like having known you, so it's neat because I have such a different context because I've known you for all these years.
And I've known at times that you've been in positions where you had a lot of great ideas.
Like we'd be talking about all the things that you thought were great ideas, but it didn't sound like there was a spot for them at work.
So you and I would talk about them offline and it sounds so different now because she's gaining the benefit of that.
Like you're a very creative thinker and she's gaining all the value of that instead of what used to be the case where, you know, when we'd go for a walk and we'd be talking about work or whatever, you'd go, oh God, I wish they would think about this.
I wish they would consider this.
And I feel like that was just a talk for, talking shop outside of work, right?
She's gained all the value of that, which is incredible just by making space for it.

Elise Steffe:
Yeah.
Yeah.
It's wonderful.
It makes it a comfortable and inviting workplace.
I absolutely love working with this team.
All of them, you know, her included, we just are getting things done and it's just this really supportive, connected, respected working environment.

Christine Laperriere:
And so what was the other, there was like a third theme, right?

Elise Steffe:
Yeah.
The third one was ability to seek resources and our mantra that we use in the organization right now is creative adaptation is at the core of what we do.
So we're doing adaptive theater and we're doing it creatively.
But I thought, wow, how those two things go together.
So as a leader and as of a growing nonprofit that is very tiny, I think sometimes it's, you know, hard to be like, well, we don't know the answers and we need resources for this.
We need to have other people help and when you have other help, it's hard not to, you know, maybe feel a little self-critical or, you know, just kind of like those elements.
So yeah, under my time the last two years, we're on our third consulting project with the University of Chicago Booth School of Business.
So we're working with MBA candidates and we're just working on various elements for, you know, business improvement with them, which, you know, that takes a ton of time, number one for her to extend herself to be, you know, part of this group and meetings, et cetera.
And then, you know, when we're getting the information and the consultant suggestions, she also has the ability to say, these are all fantastic ideas and I wish we could do all of them.
But if we try to do all of these, right, we're gonna burn out.
We just don't have the ability.
We have to kind of like tear this down to a small nonprofit with really dedicated staff, but we need to, you know, take care of the whole person, right?
Because, you know, in my experience, I've worked in nonprofit forever.
People are not motivated by, you know, a potential bonus possible trip to Hawaii at the end of the year or a big giant cash bonus the end of the year that just doesn't happen.
So they're motivated by passion and their heart, right?
For whatever nonprofit they're involved with and they're not doing it for the money.
They're not doing it for a cushy office.
All those things are just, it's just not an option.
So you just, you need to kind of, I think, really watch burnout possibly even more than in a corporate setting because as a leader of a nonprofit, as an exec, she's the executive director, you have to, during the day, you're gonna be working on this budgets and you're gonna be preparing for, you know, million dollar asks, but you also need to empty the garbage sometimes.
And you have to just sort of like check your ego that you're gonna do all of that, you know, type of work.
So she's able to do that.
Also doing another, a second project with Rush University for their doctoral program for occupational therapy.
So anyway, just bringing on, you know, all of these different resources and doing a strategic plan and, you know, of course I've kind of said it earlier, but being willing to bring on a professional fundraiser and allowing me to make suggestions and I can tell she actually really wants my opinion.
And you know, we're implementing all of it and it's working.
We're seeing the difference in the results in our fundraising efforts.

Christine Laperriere:
That's amazing.
And then I have to bring in one last thing and, you know, you feel free to share what you can, but I also know from our conversations that she has been proactive in rewarding you and thanking you and getting the board to reach out and thank you for great work.
Like, you know, the recognition, she just, you know, I was really touched the one day when you talked about just getting proactive recognition for an incredible job that you've done.
It's so refreshing to hear where somebody, you know, so you tell the story, I guess, I'll let you tell the story.

Elise Steffe:
Sure, I mean, the first thing I'll say is, you know, it's an environment where you do receive positive feedback and I think so many places, right, you're only getting feedback on, you know, areas of improvement.
But one of the things that she said to me, which really warmed my heart was, she said that she thinks that I'm a really good, big picture, visionary person, like the big picture, but I'm also able to like drill down.
And it was one of our meetings over Zoom.
We do try to meet as much as we can in person now that we safely can do that.
But when she was doing that, it was like the heart, like she was like a big picture and then you can also drill down.
I'm like, oh, that's, I'm a heart.
And she was like, yes, you're a heart.
It's so cute, but it was so nice to be recognized, you know, for that kind of talent that can't really, be drilled down a little bit.
But yeah, so I'm going on two years and I didn't seek it out, but I've, you know, been given a promotion and compensation for recognizing that I've been going a little bit over the hours that we agreed on.
And, you know, I just really appreciate, I feel valued.
And besides it just being a really incredible supportive working environment, I just feel really appreciated, especially in a nonprofit setting to kind of recognize, you know, extra effort and time.

Christine Laperriere:
It's so cool.
And I mean, I'm just going to give that little point of like, you know, you were going above and beyond and instead of you having to go in and ask for recognition or ask for, you know, what you wanted, which is most of the time, like as a leadership coach, I'm helping people advocate sometimes when they are going above and beyond.
What I think it's really neat is she recognized it, pulled you into her office and said, hey, you are going above and beyond.
I'd like to talk about how we can recognize you for that.
And I just think, wow, how refreshing.

Elise Steffe:
Yes.
I also think too, I don't know, you know, where it fits in, but for me personally, and I believe it's for the rest of the team as well, she's identified where people have strengths and talents and interests, right?
So I've been able to be involved with elements that fall out of my job description, which is the money grabber, right?
And so I've gotten involved with like the strategic plan and some more work with like marketing and communications.
And I just absolutely love it.
It's like this wonderful opportunity to, it makes me feel a little bit more inspired.
And, you know, I also think that I being willing to share kind of all elements and involving people and things that are a little bit outside of their job description, it just makes their job easier because you kind of understand the big picture.
At least for me, I need to kind of know why we're doing something and where all the elements are thinking back to past leaders that I've had, the ones that were willing to share information, invite you to a meeting that maybe technically you didn't need to be at.
It's inspiring, it's motivating, but it just makes things easier when you kind of understand what an organization is trying to do.
So I appreciate that.

Christine Laperriere:
So just real quick, I have kind of two last questions for you.
So the first is, in my business, people are always asking what's the return on investment for having a best boss, right?
Because they're investing in me and work with their leaders.
When you think of the business case that I'm usually trying to prove, what is the return on investment for working for a best boss right now?

Elise Steffe:
Well, I think that I am 100% focused on helping to improve the organization.
I don't have to spend any time at all sort of doing like a mind scramble of what exactly did we say?
Did we communicate that right?
Or is there information I'm not being told?
None of that.
It just feels very clear so we can kind of literally get down to business when we're talking.
We have fun together.
I really enjoy her.
I think she enjoys me as a person.
And yeah, I feel more motivated.
We want this organization to succeed or we're on the same team.
And sometimes I think you don't always feel like you're on the same team.

Christine Laperriere:
I mean, it sounds kind of like a mental and emotional efficiency because there's not a lot of wondering.
You're definitely not scared of whether or not your kid gets sick.
Are you going to be in trouble with your team?

Elise Steffe:
No, it's all gone.
Yeah, I can't imagine going back to an environment where I had to pretend that those elements exist or I just feel really tired and I can't think today.
I mean, there's a lot of times, you know, well, not a lot, but once in a while we'll be like, can we do this project next week because I feel exhausted or she'll say I need to think about something else.
And then it's so much better next week when we're or tomorrow or whatever it is when we're feeling a little bit more refreshed.
You just don't need to be perfect.
And I think that's kind of pre-pandemic, you know, earlier versions of working environments, you just need to be perfect all the time because you're afraid.
It's fear.
So I think it's a fear-based thing, right?
You just don't want to show any signs of weakness.

Christine Laperriere:
Oh, yeah.
And it just sounds again, she sounds like she's winning the inclusion route, which I mean, it's so neat because the organization is obviously that's the central value of the organization.
And then it's neat to hear the story of this leader who is actually really living like there can be nothing about you that makes you unacceptable if you're ready to roll up your sleeves and get down to work.
So you're truly on a highly inclusive team.

Elise Steffe:
Definitely.
It's a great team.
I'm honestly just so happy to be there and I love seeing this organization grow and I'm just really excited to kind of help mold the next phase for the next 20 years of this organization.

Christine Laperriere:
You did mention another leader that you worked for pre-pandemic days and just some of the mantras that this leader kind of used to repeat and repeat.

Elise Steffe:
Yes.

Christine Laperriere:
And so I have to ask for the Steve-isms.
Can you give me some of the Steve-isms?

Elise Steffe:
Yes.
Yes, definitely.
Yes, I was very fortunate to work under the leadership of Stephen Falk.
He was the president of Northwestern Memorial Foundation.
So that's the fundraising arm of Northwestern Medicine in Chicago.
He was a wonderful, wonderful leader.
It was a much different organization.
It was a team of, I think we had 40 people and we were raising 20 to 30 million a year.
It was very different than this place.
But I was kind of thinking about why was he such a great leader?
And you would go into staff meetings which he did have regularly.
He did a really, really great job of sharing, everyone was invited, admins all the way up to his vice president, major gift officers.
They were all invited to the staff meeting and he did a great job of sharing what the goals were and how we were going to do them.
And this huge task of raising all of this money and he would ask for a lot of feedback.
I think he probably already knew what the answer was, but he at least created an environment where everyone, admins, interns included, were allowed to make suggestions on how we were doing that.
He made the goal and the reason why very, very clear when we were doing medical fundraising and it was for things that were not available.
So a lot of research, a lot of just, you know, special projects and initiatives that our lab researchers and our physicians, you know, needed funding on.
So anyway, you would leave these meetings and you somehow wanted to work harder, right?
Like he would just leave you.
Was there a spell put on us?
He was definitely a very hard worker, you know, there before anyone else.
But he did, I think, also make sure that you felt part of the team.
He held with his senior management what he called compass meetings.
So they would go off campus to lunch, I think maybe once a month or twice a month and, you know, individually compass up as he liked to call it.
So anyway, he was a great leader.
He's recently retired and I'm just very grateful to have had the chance to work with him.
But yeah, so he had these, what we called Steve-isms in the office, but they're super fun.
So, okay, the first one was, is this the hill you want to die on, right?
So he would tell you that every time that maybe you were, you know, letting your ego get in the way or just a little bit too connected with something.
The next one was, cemeteries are full of people who thought they were irreplaceable.

Christine Laperriere:
I just love that.

Elise Steffe:
I mean, maybe a little bit.

Christine Laperriere:
I love it.

Elise Steffe:
A little bit fear-based, I think.
I don't know how well that would work now, but I also kind of made you think like, you know, it's a good point.

Christine Laperriere:
It's literally true, right?
It's true.

Elise Steffe:
You're not that important.
There's someone else and especially working in a hospital environment, like, well, maybe the only one that's not irreplaceable is the, you know, brain surgeon or something like that.

Christine Laperriere:
Right, right.

Elise Steffe:
There's not that many of them that know this like specific technique to remove a brain tumor.
But the rest of us, you know, Yeah.
We're replaceable.

Christine Laperriere:
We could be swapped out.

Elise Steffe:
Yeah.
The next one was go to every dance.
Okay, so that was, you know, in a fundraising sense that you never know where your next donor is and any invitation you went and you went to the dance and he, in a patient environment, you know, he obviously there's a lot of people with money in Chicago, but, you know, it was kind of like, don't judge a book by a cover.
You don't know, you know, where your next relationship is going to come from.
So I definitely still use that one a lot or at least try to think about it.
Like go to as many dances as you can as long as you have kid coverage, I guess.
Okay, so the next one is stay loose, right?
So I still try to use that now and I use that really through the whole school from home with my kids and not knowing what the next day was going to bring.
Like we've got to stay loose.
We've got to stay loose.
Like we don't know.
Like we cannot be rigid right now.
This kind of goes with that.
Bend like a reed, right?

Christine Laperriere:
I think bend like a reed makes me giggle.

Elise Steffe:
Flexibility, yeah, like a reed.
So just, you know, just remember in staff meetings or something, someone's butt, butt, butt and you'll be like bend like a reed, right?
Like we need to go with the flow.
Things are out of our element, right?
We can't do that.
All right, so then the next two are broad brush strokes.
So you'd be in a meeting and you get too much and he just hands up broad brush strokes.
Okay, we got to take it up.
And then you're in the weeds, go to 10,000 feet, right?
So like how much with that of our, you know, I'm thinking about it now, like are we providing too much information?
Does the donor really care that we have all these different elements of, you know, how it's therapeutically based?
Or so I'm trying to use that or who's the audience that we're trying to talk to?
Is it replying for a grant or is it an individual?
And then the last one was if you're on time, you are late, right?
So you had that staff meeting, you know, you could start at one, you really should have been comfortably in your seat at, you know, 1255.

Christine Laperriere:
Like I said, this is the only Steve-ism that I would disagree with.
I'm like, I'm so about efficiency that I'm like right on time.
I'm never early and I'm never late.
I'm always right on time.

Elise Steffe:
Yeah, definitely.
So I've shared some of those with my staff now and, you know, you'll hear people kind of mention that like, well, is this a go to every dance or is this too much for us to handle?

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, you know, I mean, what's cool about that, though, is I noticed when leaders use mantras like that, first of all, again, they become part of the cultural fabric.
Number two, as long as that leader lives those same mantras, right?
And so that's when they stick, like when you really see them stick.
But what's cool is again, when you can repeat them off the top of your head, like you know the values of that leader and you're living in them because you're in a meeting that Steve's not in and you're like, you know, okay, are we in the weeds?
Like, stay loose, everybody.
Like, so you're actually living and he's given you these great like verbal nuggets.
They're like two to five words max, right?
Where they're quickly repeatable.
They send everybody in one direction.
I just, I love that.
I like Steve-isms and I think they're fantastic.

Elise Steffe:
Yeah, definitely, definitely.

Christine Laperriere:
Listen, this was so much fun.
Thank you so much for sharing about these two fantastic leaders.
And I'm just grinning ear to ear because again, I saw so much potential for you and it just, it used to bum me out to wonder like, who's gonna get an opportunity to take advantage of all this great genius that you have?
Because you are, you're such a hard worker but you're also a creative big picture person.
So you have all these skills.
And I was just like, it's not fair that being a mom and having responsibility at home doesn't provide you a chance to bring all that value to the world.

Elise Steffe:
Yes, well, thank you for having me on.
This was really fun.

Christine Laperriere:
If you want to hear more, join me at christinelaperriere.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 42
Title: Who's the boss?
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Michael Pilla

Christine Laperriere:
Now, today I'm excited because I have Michael Pilla on the show.
And what's really neat is as the show has gained popularity, I'm getting people who are reaching out to me and actually saying, hey, I actually have a best boss that I really want to talk about.
And so I'm excited because even though Michael and I haven't worked together, he thought of somebody and instantly felt like this was the right place to talk about it.
So, Michael, first of all, please introduce yourself and thank you so much for coming on the show.
Thank you.

Michael Pilla:
Thank you, Christine.
My name is Michael Pilla.
The name of my firm is Pilla Creative Marketing.
We are a digital marketing firm providing branding and content development for web, social, and email.
We have a very, very broad practice, although lately we've been focusing more on arts and culture organizations.
It's more or less a passion project for me.
A lot of arts and cultural organizations have taken a beating during the COVID situation, so I would really like to help them all get sort of back up and running.

Christine Laperriere:
Great.
Great.
That's a great area to focus on.
I'm just going to dive in.
When you heard the name of the show, what was the boss that came to mind for you?

Michael Pilla:
Well, there was two.
There were my first two bosses.
My first job was at a children's publishing company, and I was like an illustration major just out of college.
And after bumping around for a year, I decided I needed a job.
I had been seeing art directors for illustration work, and I sent out a whole bunch of letters, Xerox letters, to the art directors I had met while I was looking for illustration work.
And this woman named Barry got in touch with me and said, Hi, you know, I remember sending out letters like this when I got out of school.
So we sort of had a connection in that way.
So she sort of guided me through the interview process.
And it really wasn't much of a process because I was a low level designer.
But she basically took me in, took me under her wing for a while, sort of really got me started in the design business, showed me about scheduling deadlines, what it was like to work part of a team.
And then just as everything was going really, really well, she left to go get another job.

Christine Laperriere:
Oh, no.

Michael Pilla:
Right.
Now, you would think that would be the end of the story, but we actually kept in touch for a good 15, 20 years after that.
We'd have lunch occasionally.
She became something of a mentor to me.
We became friends on a certain level.
And down the road, she was able to give me some very important projects.
She got a job with a huge trade publication company.
So I was able to design several magazines for her.
She actually gave me my first website job, a job with a fabric company.
And she was basically trying to get them into the 20th century.
So she handed me their first major website.
And I had been sort of fooling around with websites, as everybody did back then, just sort of like in the 90s.
Everybody was fooling around with websites, but she trusted me enough to hand me their first big web project.
So in a sense, she gave me two first jobs.
She gave me my first real job in the business, and then she sort of launched my web career with that job.

Christine Laperriere:
That's amazing.
When you're thinking about even that first job that she gave you, you were probably trying to navigate that environment and you probably didn't know a lot at that point.
What did she do to kind of help guide you along the way?

Michael Pilla:
She was like, again, she sort of took me under her wing and she sort of explained a little bit of the office politics, that it wasn't just designing nice things, it was how to deal with certain situations and certain people.
Children's publishing looks like a lot of fun and it is a lot of fun from the outside, but there's a lot of sensitivity on the inside.
So that's so much politics.
But people are very, very sensitive as to the messages you're putting out.
And a lot of messages have factions, shall we say.
And if you have one really good story, is we were doing one of these sports characters in a particular feature of the magazine, one that represented by a certain sports character.
So we hired a caricatrist who did a really good caricature of O.J.
Simpson.
This is before O.J.
Simpson was O.J.
Simpson.
But there was a group of parents who objected to the caricature.
And they didn't like, his ears were funny, his cheekbones were funny, and they basically thought we were making fun of African-Americans to be blunt with caricature.
So we had a meeting with them and we ended up having to change it.

Christine Laperriere:
Did she give you some coaching on that then?

Michael Pilla:
Yes, definitely.
Well, it was just interesting to see how something that was really so innocent could just really sort of blow out of proportions on a children's magazine.
This is the New York Times or anything.

Christine Laperriere:
But it makes sense, right?
You need to know your audience and know how things are going to impact them.
So that makes sense.

Michael Pilla:
That's what I learned basically, is know your audience.
It's a classic, but it never goes away.
And know your audience.

Christine Laperriere:
You said there were two bosses that came to mind.

Michael Pilla:
Yeah, the second major job I got was with a direct mail publisher.
And she hired me as her assistant.
Direct mail back then was very, very hectic.
We would do all our Christmas promotion in July.
And even though I started out as pretty much like a production person, I kept trying to work up into doing more design work.
And she saw that.
And at one point she first shared with and then practically handed me a particular section of their direct mail package.
It was something referred to as an enclosure.
So we had a catalog, which were the main items.
And then the enclosures were items that wanted a feature.
When I started taking over, the enclosures started to outsell the catalog.
Oh, wow.
It was a book.
It was an online book publisher.
And I like to tell people the innovation I brought to the job was that I read the books.

Christine Laperriere:
That was the secret.

Michael Pilla:
Well, I treated each book like it was a separate market.
So if it was a mystery book, and what kind of mystery book is, and then let's design an ad or whatever that would appeal to people who like mystery books, that kind of stuff.
She gave me a lot of leeway.
As long as I wasn't doing anything stupid, she basically let me go my own way and do what I will with those projects.
And there was a few times where I tripped up, I made some mistakes, stupid mistakes, but she was always behind me.

Christine Laperriere:
Okay.
So tell me about the stupid mistakes.
Things like typos, things like missing a deadline, just like kid stuff, really.
But instead of turning it into a tragedy, someone else would have used that as an excuse to sort of pull work away from me.
But she just reprimanded me, told me not to do it again, and we just sort of moved forward from there.
Towards the end, this is how long ago this was.
They really started to get interested.
Actually, I kind of nudged them in that direction to go out and buy a Mac.
It was one of the first Macs.
So one of the last things I did for them was to help them set up an internal electronic publishing capability.
It was very, very rudimentary compared to what you can do today.
But back then, this was like we discovered fire.

Christine Laperriere:
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
It was a big deal.

Michael Pilla:
And again, they kind of allowed me to run with that.
I came in all excited about Macs and electronic publishing and everything.
And they basically said, okay, let's see what you can do with it.

Christine Laperriere:
Even if they had to probably put budget against it, right?

Michael Pilla:
They did.
And there wasn't a lot of budget back then.
I mean, it was more like, what are we going to do with this thing, even if we buy it?
There were higher-end computers involved with publishing.
Most of those had to do with heavy-duty printing, printing plates for printers, and very little of them.
That was the advantage of the Mac, is that it was very, very flexible.
Well, the thing is, a lot of the traditional printers tried to say, oh, we could do that.
But of course, the problem was they had to run film for everything.
The Stone Age of printing.
They're doing film.
They don't do film anymore.
What it meant is if they did film for everything, if you wanted to make a change, you had to go back and rerun film.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
Lots of extra steps.

Michael Pilla:
Because it wasn't totally digital.
It was a hybrid of digital and analog.
They tried to sell that, but the Mac, as Zach grew up, he grew up into something that was completely digital, which gave designers all kinds of freedom for good and for ill.

Christine Laperriere:
So this is interesting.
When you were working for these best bosses, just tell me, first of all, did you know you were working for a best boss at the time?

Michael Pilla:
Yeah.
It was two very comfortable relationships.
We actually managed to get close.
There was clearly a hierarchy, but we really had to be friendly after a while.
Go to lunch, go to drinks, that kind of stuff.
We never crossed any lines.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
But still, you build a real working relationship that you value versus just coming in and transactional.

Michael Pilla:
Since the relationship reached a personal level, we were able to work out things out of the office.
So it just made everything a lot easier.

Christine Laperriere:
And then, what do you think the impact is to the business?
So in my world, I do a lot of work with high potential talent and people who are on the track to being managers, leaders, like I said, future best bosses.
And I always get asked, what's the impact to the business?
If you had to guess, what was the impact to the business in these cases where you worked for best bosses?

Michael Pilla:
Personally, the impact of the business was they got a lot out of me.
I mean, I really performed very, very well.
In the case of the book publisher, I made them a lot of money.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
So you made them quite a bit more money.

Michael Pilla:
I was able to make a larger impact due to the freedom my bosses gave me.
They got the best out of me, and that helped the company.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, that's what I'm hearing, right?
So yeah, you have this kind of entry-level, young, ambitious type.
And they got out of your way enough to let you...

Michael Pilla:
Right.
I mean, I've had subsequent jobs where they would tell me to stop, you know, Mike, you're only a designer.
Why are you bringing up all this other stuff, you know?
And I always saw design with a big D, you know, that it touches and involves a lot of things.
And then people would hire me with design with a little D, which means, you know, we need you to do type corrections.
Just, you know, just do that production work and we'll be happy.
And they try to convince them, no, but there's other things we could be doing, you know, that would make this entire thing work better.

Christine Laperriere:
I like your point about designing with a big D versus a little D, right?
Because I think I see a lot of people believe that their role is to manage detail.
And they do, they miss the broader opportunity.

Michael Pilla:
My first two jobs, I take a bigger picture as possible.
Without even consciously doing it, I mean, I have a very good memory and I have very good hearing.
And I would basically know what everybody was doing, even though it was none of my business.
So more than once, someone would say, you know, what was Charlie working on?
And I'd say, oh, he was doing those things over there.
And they go, why did you know that?
Well, you know, I heard him talking.
And it became like the department, like encyclopedia.

Christine Laperriere:
Okay.
So in your career, have you had what I would call less than great bosses?

Michael Pilla:
Not so much a boss, but someone who I worked for and with.
They could be a real handful.
They would start out being very like complimentary.
And we actually did some very, very good creative work together.
But at some point, you know, they would always turn, you know, and they would get very either critical or if there was a problem, they'd throw you under the bus.
Or if they thought you were getting more attention than they were, they would start undercutting you.
I've had a person try to steal business from me.
You know, I would bring them in on a big project.
And the next thing I know, she tries to make it their client and not my client.
And that I'm actually working for them instead of working together.
You know, and this just really, really toxic situation where, and it could be a real mix of being very competent.
I mean, it's manipulative, very complimentary, you know, combined with being very condescending.

Christine Laperriere:
Well, and it's interesting because that is, people don't love to be kind of like that feeling of being knocked down or treated as less than, you know what I mean?
Like it's just a human instinct, right?
None of us love to feel like that.

Michael Pilla:
And to go back to, to relate this back to the two bosses, I was saying the two bosses were very supportive if I did well.
They weren't threatened.
In fact, since they were my bosses, they sort of reflected well on them, you know, that they were working with people who were exceeding and excelling.
They never saw it as taking away from their sunshine, as it were.
Another person, if someone else got up, there's one little story.
So I'm talking to another guy who's working with this person and he says, oh, you know, she has this great new assistant, you know, they have this great new assistant, really like working with her.
How long has she been working with this person?
And the guy I'm talking to says she's been there about three weeks.
He's doing a great job.
I said, well, she'll be gone in about two weeks.
He was too many compliments.

Christine Laperriere:
Yes.
So out of the gate was always kind of lovely.
But then all of a sudden, when you started to see.

Michael Pilla:
Well, like a lot, I don't know the psychological term for this, but the type of person that could be very charming, very even seductive, very, you know, very nice work with, very productive.
Everything looks just wonderful up to the minute where it's not.
And then all of a sudden, you know, you're a moron.
You can't be trusted.
And if any little thing goes wrong, it's not their fault.
You know, they're more than willing to throw you under the bus.
So it's really abusive after a while.

Christine Laperriere:
Sounds narcissistic.

Michael Pilla:
Totally.
I like that.
It's toxic narcissism.
Yep.
Absolutely.
Totally abusive, totally narcissistic.
And it's something to really watch out for, because you just waste a lot of time with people like.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
Well, and you know, I, a lot of the times in coaching conversations, you know, it's important to remind people like they have choice of who they want to work for, you know, like we're not prisoners.

Michael Pilla:
Right.
Right.
Yes.
Yes.

Christine Laperriere:
And I think that will help.
Like the more people do leave when they don't work for great leaders, the faster we start to correct some of that problem, you know, but as soon as we convince people that they're in a box and they have to tolerate it, it's hard to get people to believe.

Michael Pilla:
It gets worse.
And it's like, once those people know you're in a box, they just really dump all over you.
You know, it's just like, you know, it's like you're like, you're in a trap.

Christine Laperriere:
It's a tough one because I see that a lot.
And there's something in high performing people, there's a small segment that some of that narcissism works because they're very competitive and they excel.
They know how to work a room and all of that.
But the problem is, is once they become leaders, they become very toxic.
So quick question.
If you had to, you know, teach or advise leaders on how to be a best boss, given everything you've seen in your experience, what would you tell them to focus on?
What would you tell them to do and be explicit?
Give them, you know, practices.
What would they do?

Michael Pilla:
I mean, it starts with respecting the people we work with and insist that they respect you.
You know, there's the thing in the military where, you know, your subordinates owe you obedience, but you owe them care.
You're leading guys at the battle.
Yeah, they're supposed to follow you, but it's up to you to make sure that you're not putting them in harm's way.
You know what I mean?
So that's the two-way ladder of leadership in that situation.
So yeah, you want to, first of all, total respect on everybody's level.
I think it's important to encourage that, to get the best out of the people you're working with, not to be overly critical.
And if things do go wrong, use those as teaching situations.
Give people leeway to be themselves.
You know, you may have the best idea, but maybe somebody has something better.
I would also say be very clear and decisive.
I've worked for people who like to make a consensus.
I do invite, you know, people's opinions.
I do invite, you know, alternate ways of doing things, but it's all about the understanding is that I'm the guy in charge and it's my decision.
It's my client, it's my job, it's my clients, my department, it's my, you know, behind.
So we're going to go my, I welcome all your input because that does affect my decision, but the final decision has to be mine.
And I think that that makes things a lot clearer.
And when you do make a decision, make it clear.
And on the other side of that, if it's clear after a while that that decision is not working, make another one.
Don't dig a hole for yourself, you know.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah.
Yeah.
Don't double down on a bad decision.

Michael Pilla:
And also the general is just treat people as people.
You know, I always try to get to know the people who are working for me a little bit, you know, just on a slight personal level.
So I get a sense of, I mean, I find that helps with just general communication.
You know, if I really, if I know people better, I can read them better.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
I've always believed that.

Michael Pilla:
Tell what they're talking about, what they're having issues if, you know, just how things are going that way.
But it has to do basically with treating people as people, you know, give them leeway, take responsibility and be in charge, you know.

Christine Laperriere:
Great.
Well, listen, I think that's a fantastic thinking for everybody out there today.
Anything else you want to add?

Michael Pilla:
Well, this is an aside.
Part of leadership, especially in a business situation, is managing your clients.
People don't see that as part of leadership because, you know, you've got to deal with, you're taking orders and you have to use those orders not only to get the job done, but to also, you know, take care of your team.
And I became very good at dealing with clients when I became a parent.
And it was one day I'm leaving home.
I have a three-year-old daughter who's just, I don't know where she is.
She's inconsolable, but she's just noise.
So I get myself to the office and I'm dealing with a client who's exactly the same way.
He's screaming all over the place.
So I was just like dealing with the baby.
Same technique.
I went, that's okay.
Tell me, tell me what the problem is.
Instead of, you know, running around and apologizing and what can we do?
And I just, just calm down a minute.
You know, tell me, try to tell me what's wrong.
Let's, let's focus on, you know, what the issue.
And more times than not, it's a small issue that just got blown out of proportion.
Right, right, right.
How do you get them to focus on the one thing?
And a lot of times instead of the stupidest, I really hate green.
Okay, let's remove the green.

Christine Laperriere:
Right, right.
This is solvable.

Michael Pilla:
This is solvable.

Christine Laperriere:
That's funny.
I have young kids and I find that there's days where you just start to realize that adults are just bigger young kids.

Michael Pilla:
It was really funny because I finished dealing with my daughter and I was using the exact same approach on the client.
It was sort of an eye-opener.
The other eye-opener was, are you familiar with the dog whisperer?

Christine Laperriere:
Yes, Caesar Milan.

Michael Pilla:
Yeah, now that works too.
Okay, dogs are pack animals.
So a pack animal will instinctively look for a leader.
Now, if there is no leader, the pack animal decides they are the leader.
That's why little dogs are hard to control.
There's people, people give them a lot of leeway and so the dog thinks it's a leader.
So the dog thinks it's running the house.
So you have to be very calm but assertive and get the dog into a place where it is sort of passive.

Christine Laperriere:
It knows that there is a leader in the house.

Michael Pilla:
And it makes them comfortable because they know what the story is.
So I had this one boss who was literally a bulldog and again another yeller and I refused to give into the yelling and I just related to him in a very much, you know, calm and assertive way.
I answered his questions very quietly and it triggered something because he calmed down and he was fine.
As I got to a point, we get to the end of the conversation and he goes, so he says, is this environmentally safe?
Because there was part of their thing with this building they were doing a whole environmental thing.
I go, Alan?
I said, this is printed on recycled paper with soy ink.
I said, you'll be able to eat this thing when we're finished.
You know, so he went, yeah, okay.
But he never gave me any trouble because I always approached him like without fear, without trepidation, without fear and just one-to-one.
I mean, you know, look him in the eye and say what I had to say and it literally triggers something in the human mind.
They go somewhere else.

Christine Laperriere:
It's a good reminder, you know, I'm smiling and loving this conversation about, you know, the tie into parenting and dog whispering because, you know, I completely agree that humans are pack animals, right?

Michael Pilla:
Yes.

Christine Laperriere:
We do.
Exactly.
We look for a leader.
We are looking and I'm thinking about it just while you're talking and thinking about different places that I coach and support and work alongside.
You know, you mentioned the point of consensus, right?
And when somebody looks like they're not going to take a leadership stance, you end up with a lot of people getting confused and rallying for leadership.
It's just such an interesting, you know, and I love the dog whisper correlation.

Michael Pilla:
Right.
No, it becomes like a mess because everybody's going to have their two cents and the issue becomes more about people having their two cents than about getting something done.
You're reminded with a mishmash, which may or may not work, but that really wasn't the point.
Everybody had to feel good.
I mean, there's a lot of ways to feel good.
You know, you can feel good that you got your point in, but you could just feel good that you were part of a team that accomplished something regardless of what your contribution was.
So there's that.
But yes, actually, dogs, I did some studies of this after a while, but the psychology of dogs and humans are very, very close.
Sociologists are wondering if the relationship between men and dogs, it isn't simply that men started or women or whoever, people started feeding dogs.
That there was already like a common thought process, you know, which in primitive times led to the hunt.
They both hunted in similar ways.
They hunted in packs.
You don't mind me going on here, but then apparently in prehistoric time stuff, they would hunt together.
They'd be hunting the same animal.
And they got to the point where they would start cooperating.
And out of that led the domestication of dogs.
So it wasn't that they were hanging around people to get a free meal.
There was some sort of a sympathetic connection between the way they thought and the way they reacted to each other.

Christine Laperriere:
That's interesting.
Like I said, be on my mind today as I go forward.
I'll be thinking about that because I agree.
And I've always said that there is something, you know, in that pack leadership piece that I noticed that's very hard to describe sometimes when I'm working with a group, but I can feel it.
I can feel the who's the boss confusion.
And what ends up happening is people instinctively, even really good people who don't have any negative intent, will start to rally for some territory or something that they can dominate because they're confused.

Michael Pilla:
Yeah.
That's when it gets out of control.
Yeah.
No, we're not talking about somebody standing on the desk, yelling, I'm in charge, but just somebody who can, you know, logically guide the group to where it needs to be.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
Because if there isn't that perceived guidance, it gets confusing for people.
You see the infighting start to pick up, right?

Michael Pilla:
The two things Cesar Millan says is basically you need to be calm and assertive.
The leader is calm and assertive that that will trickle through the group.

Christine Laperriere:
Excellent.
Well, listen, Michael, this was a lot of fun.
And I think- 

Michael Pilla:
Yes, same here.

Christine Laperriere:
I love the kind of corners of this conversation and where they went.
This is fun for me.
So thank you so much.
If you want to hear more, join me at christinelaperriere.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.
And we'll see you next time.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 43
Title: Making sales management look easy
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Mark Cox

Christine Laperriere:
Today, I've invited Mark Cox onto the show, and we are going to have a really cool conversation about his experience of his best boss, but also a bit about all the great selling work and sales training experience he does in his current business.
Welcome, Mark.

Mark Cox:
Oh, thanks, Christine.
I was so excited to join you today.
I love this topic.
It's such a smart idea for a podcast.

Christine Laperriere:
And just so everybody knows, where can they find you?
Yeah, thank you.
We're at InTheFunnel.com.
So I founded a company called InTheFunnel.com.
We help companies sell better.
And I'm all over LinkedIn too.
It's Mark Cox, M-A-R-K-C-O-X on LinkedIn.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
And it's neat because Mark and I actually met through doing some sales transformation work together.
We did a long time ago.

Christine Laperriere:
That's right.
So this is why it's really fun to reconnect with this leadership topic.
So I'm going to go ahead and dive in.
Tell us, best boss, who was it?

Mark Cox:
Well, you know what?
I may not share a name because, Christine, I'm sure you've had so many guests on the show, right?
Where you've had so many great bosses.
Like you were so privileged.
You had all of these great bosses.
Maybe a couple that weren't awesome either.
But maybe just to protect the innocent, I won't share a name because I'm going to share some of the attributes and some of the stories, but I feel like I'd be picking a favorite child.
It feels like it's Sophie's choice or something.
But I definitely have somebody in mind that really had a huge impact on me at a really kind of pivotal stage of my career.
Like I'm going to want to say I was probably my second or third job in, professional job in.
And it's just when things were starting to come together from a sales perspective.
So it was a really important move for me to join the company.
And the main reason, of course, I joined the company was because of this boss.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
So you actually, you joined the company because this person was who you wanted to work for.

Mark Cox:
Yeah, I kind of grew up in the earliest days of technology, selling photocopiers.
And there were a couple of companies that did that.
And that evolved into something called outsourcing or facilities management is a big thing, kind of the mid 90s.
And there were a couple of people who were real players in that space.
I got exposure to competitors and people who ran those competitors, sales organizations and ultimately had an opportunity to work with one when they were part of a startup.
So I knew this person and I had competed against them.
I'd actually lost, but it was one of those ones where you had this, I had some interaction.
And for where I was sitting, he pretty much had, he was sort of the penultimate sales leader and sales person and all of those kinds of things.
He looked like he was really good at almost everything he did to me.

Christine Laperriere:
Wow.
Wow.
Cool.
And so when you went to go work with him, can you tell me a little bit about what was it like to work with this person who you obviously looked up to from afar?

Mark Cox:
First of all, it was great.
It was challenging and it was great.
I think I'd been up to that point in my career, been in a couple of organizations where I felt I probably knew as much or more than most of the people running the sales organizations and so forth.
And this was the first time I came across somebody and I thought, boy, there's a lot to learn from this person.
And so I really liked that.
They were very strategic and they granted a lot of autonomy, but they just seemed so intentional, so smart about everything they did.
And one of the things that I loved about this fellow was I would spend a lot of time strategizing on accounts.
And you know, back in those days, you did things like Miller Heiman.
You'll remember that one.

Christine Laperriere:
Yes, definitely.

Mark Cox:
By the way, for those listening by strategic selling today, it's still 60% of every sales book out there is Miller Hyman strategic selling.

Christine Laperriere:
Exactly.

Mark Cox:
But so it was a good framework and I had a framework and a methodical.
So I'd work through deals.
We were working.
The deals were significant.
And I remember every time I went in for a one-on-one, this fellow had the ability to ask a question that I'd never heard before and maybe didn't have a great answer to.
There wasn't a lot of and it was always from the client perspective, but it has these great questions.
The obvious ones, you know, why is this project such a priority for the client?
You know, what exactly is the return on investment for the client?
How many years does it take to pay this thing back?
Given everything else they're doing, why does this make the top 10?
And it was with these kinds of questions where he knew the answer, but didn't give it to me.
He would let me kind of try and think through the answer.
And all I kept thinking was I'd keep that office going next time.
I'm going to be so prepared.
There's no question he can ask.
I don't have the answer to, and then he'd do it again.
And it was all part of this learning where over the few years I was working for him, my ability to think through strategically a deal really elevated.
And so, by the way, that feels really good at times.
It feels a little bad at times.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Mark Cox:
Sometimes you don't know the answer.
You don't know the answer, and you want to look good.
And if you're impressed by the boss, you definitely want to look good.
So that was one of the things that really struck me was the one-on-ones, they'd be so intentional.
I could tell he'd done it a lot, so he's very good at it.
But he was pretty intentional about the way he asked questions and the way he led me through one-on-one.
I was doing all the work in the one-on-one, but it was only because he was running it so well.

Christine Laperriere:
See, and this is really at the end of the day, wouldn't you say this is the origin of great sales coaching?

Mark Cox:
100% is absolutely.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
We're trying to inspire leaders to be thoughtful, especially sales coaches.
And I think a lot of leaders think that sales coaching is following up on your numbers.
What's your pipeline?
What's your revenue?
Why aren't you getting your revenue numbers met?
And then sometimes jumping to solutions, right?
So lots of sales leaders say, this is what you should do.
This is what you should do.

Mark Cox:
Michael Bungay, I always get his name wrong, but the coaching haven't.
For those people out there, one of the best reads out there, so simple, but so hard.
When we're as sales leaders today, we're all in the same boat every quarter.
We're hearing that cadence.
We're sitting down for a one-on-ones, and we're really tracking the top deals that are going to get us to our number.
So it's just opportunity management as all sales management tends to be, to have someone back in those days, be very strategic.
And I could tell I was getting better.
Christine, that was one of the things that was also so important to me.
I could feel like I felt like I was getting better, and I was a little outside my comfort zone, and I was learning.
And as we all know, like you never get tired of learning.
I think I think you start to get tired of doing the same thing when you become masterful at it, and it's not evolving.
But if you're learning, it sort of keeps you sharp and keeps you engaged.
And I wasn't the only one who found this person to be a great coach and a great leader.
There were two or three sales people in this company, and frankly, they've all gone on to amazing things, like because this was sort of a startup.
But the other two people have gone on to amazing things, but we'd be just pounding it out late at night and loving it.
And I thought to myself, this guy's really got this team coming.
Like he's got great salespeople, and he's getting the most out of them.
It's a real powerful thing.

Christine Laperriere:
So he's asking these great questions in your one-on-ones.
He's really challenging your thinking.
You feel like you're getting better as a sales professional while you're working with him.
So what else was he doing that really brought the team together, though?
You mentioned that, and that's a little bit different than individual performance.
Now you're seeing the whole team operate.
What did he do to create that kind of glue?

Mark Cox:
I think all of us wanted to become him.
He actually made one of those people who made sales management look attractive because he was so good at it.
He almost made it look easy.
And as you and I both know, and I'll tell you about my worst boss ever, it's not easy.

Christine Laperriere:
That's right.

Mark Cox:
It's not easy.
So he really had us motivated because I think all of us wanted to replace him.
I think most of us could have been candidates for that.
And the other thing, it was a while back now, Christine, but one of the things I do know is he took those opportunities to make it about me, not about him.
And it wasn't hard for him to assess somebody like me was ambitious.
So I think it was quite intentional about talking about career progression and next steps and the opportunity and all those kinds of good things because he was this role model on a couple of different fronts where I might have looked at it being 10 years as junior and said most of those things look pretty good to me, the way this guy's got it all sorted out.
So I think he spent enough time thinking about that.
The other thing I think, given what I've done since there and some exposure, he actually was a nice person.
And when you get to your stage, your career, my stage in my career, there's a no jerks policy in life now.
There's talented people out there that are jerks.
They can't come anywhere near in the funnel and we won't work for them either.
Right.
So based on the way I'm built, I'm not looking for my boss to be my friend or best friend, but I actually have to have respect that he's a good person or she's a good person.
And for the most part, I've been really blessed in my career having lots of boss and they were all good people.
And if they weren't, by the way, I just walked out the door, which I've done too.

Christine Laperriere:
Well, absolutely.
And the meat of that, what's so interesting is, again, I actually was working with a sales leader one day and he said something about I never buy from people I don't trust.
And ironically, people I trust, I like.
And so he kind of, you know, he was like, I don't need to like you necessarily to buy from you.
But there's just this interesting correlation to the fact that I need to trust you.
And ironically, I always like people that I trust.
And I was like, that makes a ton of sense, actually.

Mark Cox:
It does.
And I can't if the book is called Can You Hear Me?
I forget the name of the professor who wrote it.
But one of the things he said was when we first meet somebody, the first thing we're trying to assess consciously and subconsciously is their intent.
What's their intent?
And so so I think somehow, you know, the old adage, which still rings true, which is, you know, they care what you know, only if they know that you care.
Oh, is that cool?
I don't again, these adages, who knows where I heard this?
I've stolen all of this from other people.
So credit to anybody who said these things.
But I think it really is that that thing is so important today, which is, it will all be held accountable.
You know, we all understand we've got to perform.
There's that reality.
But I do want to be working with folks who have the right intent for me.
And I want to make sure I have the right intent for people I'm working working with and that they know it.

Christine Laperriere:
That's really good.
I love that quote.
That's amazing.
So now when we got on the line, and I just started to dribble this idea of the worst boss ever, you kind of had a different angle on it when when I asked you that question.
So tell us a little bit about how that one popped for you.

Mark Cox:
Yeah, what popped for me was I was absolutely one of the worst sales managers ever when I first started.
And as as fate would have, it was very soon after being exposed to this individual, where I've seen what is perfect look like.
But there's no question when I first became a sales manager, maybe 20 years ago, it was amazing how quickly I became miserable.
And the seven or eight people who reported to me became miserable.
Okay, there were just such great lessons from it that I think we're sharing.
First of all, I was pretty good at selling for this particular company exactly what these people were selling.
So I was a top player on the team.
And then I got promoted.
And so as soon as I got promoted, it seems so logical to me that everybody should do exactly what I had just been doing exactly the way I had been doing it.
Oh, good.
Seems seems so evident.
Right, right.
I was doing great skill selling.
Do it exactly do exactly exactly the way I do it.
And we know how that story ends where, you know, I'm diminishing their unique abilities and what they're good at.
They feel like they're being told what to do all the time because I did tell them what to do all the time.
They don't feel like they're getting credit for anything.
I think a lot of I probably showed that I was in over my head when I was managing the teams to begin with.
So it felt like it was all about me.
And maybe there was a lot of judgment coming from me to these other people, because I'd just been working side by each with them.
So I knew what they've been up to and whether they've been good or bad.
So all of these things like intent, it was all in the wrong place.
And it was so interesting.
Christine, the story is so funny because I'm miserable, literally to the point of thinking about leaving.
They're miserable, probably thinking about leaving.
But in huge companies, funny decisions get made.
So I end up getting promoted.
Are you kidding?
No.

Christine Laperriere:
And so you're going to really bump some people out there.
Oh, my God.
Looking for a lousy boss right now.

Mark Cox:
And wow.
So then I get promoted.
But it has a happier ending.
I then get promoted to run an area of the business I had no exposure to whatsoever.
So now I'm running a smaller team of people in a different, completely different line of business that I had no background or understanding of.
So now when I'm managing this team and they're coming in saying, here's my situation.
Here's what I'm up to.
Here's the three things I could do.
What do you think I should do, Mark?
I had no other answer except, what do you think you should do?
Because I have five years experience of having done it all the time.
So I started to be able to step away from it to get out of the weeds and start to think about not trying to be the subject matter expert, but trying to be a better coach or a better leader.
And it was kind of interesting that after these one on ones that I would have with people compared to the previous role I'd just been in, I wasn't looking forward to any of the one on ones.
Every time I have these new ones or these meetings with people on my team, I enjoyed all of them.
I was really curious as to what's going on.
I really wanted them to kind of come to the table with some options and alternatives.
I was authentically working through solutions with them in real time, but mostly putting it on them to come to the answer.
And so they enjoyed them more.
I enjoyed them more and you know how this story ends.
It was just great.

Christine Laperriere:
You actually had success in that environment, not feeling like you're trying to micromanage everything and people are feeling their autonomy swept out from under them.

Mark Cox:
Completely.
So by way of this podcast, I think I need to apologize to everybody who's managing in that first group.
They've all gone on to greater things too, by the way.

Christine Laperriere:
I'm sure it was not fun for them to see you get promoted again.

Mark Cox:
Right.
It wasn't.
And we've stayed in, they were all great people and we've stayed in touch since then.
They've done great things.
I think it's a bit of a lesson also for all of those becoming the boss the first time.
This fellow made that job look so darn easy, but it does take a lot of time and effort and intention to become that boss who is a great boss.
It's hard.

Christine Laperriere:
It is.
And I think, you know, it's interesting because I focus on leaders that are kind of midway through their career.
So I don't go after the C-suite and I don't go after entry level, but I really, you know, all the work I do is really high potential talent that's kind of sitting in that manager, director, vice president level.
And I really think there's this maturity that happens through that, you know, it's a cocoon to butterfly maturity.
And to your point, you know, it's kind of like a lot of things.
It looks easy as you're watching, you know, when you're doing the, what do they call it?
The Monday night armchair.

Mark Cox:
Armchair quarterback.

Christine Laperriere:
Armchair quarterback.
There you go.
And so it's like, oh, well, you know, just do it this way.
Just throw the ball here.
And then all of a sudden, when you're thrown out in the field, you realize that there's a million reasons why you don't make the decision that everybody else thinks is intuitive.
And so I really like the fact that, you know, you identified yourself as a worst boss because it's the self awareness to realize that it it's actually a lot harder than it looks that probably gave you the opportunity for the maturity to happen.

Mark Cox:
Well, you know, you're absolutely right, Christine.
And I think the other thing it's hard for all of us when we're being managed by a bad boss, we have a tough time having any empathy for what they're going through because this is the other side of the coin.
We have a boss going through a tough time, but as a direct contributor being managed, I make it all the time about me instead of thinking through what are they going through as a new boss or what pressures do they have?
What challenges do they have that they're insulating me from as a direct contributor?
It's I think people become good at managing people over time.
It's not an overnight thing and it takes a lot of time, but I think one of the things they get is they get a little bit of a confidence around their judgment and their approach.
And once they've got that confidence, they become a better boss because they can actually respond instead of react and they can coach instead of inspect.
And so they can question instead of tell.
And I think the bad side of each of those coins comes when you're kind of new, often times to doing this, you're just not as comfortable in your role.
And this is a big problem, by the way, in professional sales today, because, you know, recent Gardner research says if you're a CRO or running a sales organization at a high level, your tenure is 18 months, 18 months.
The first six are going to be, you know, three to six, you're caught up to going, hey, what is this business?
What's going on in my team?
What's the strategy?
Now I got 12 months when I'm reporting to the executive team or reporting to the board or I'm out.
So you don't have that.
You just don't have that leeway.
And I'm now I'm reacting all the time.

Christine Laperriere:
No, I was just talking to somebody taking on that chief sales officer role.
You know, I was saying to her exactly that I said, like, these are very short runways like you don't.
You're going to be shocked at how little time you have to prove your impact on the sales organization.
Like we're going to have this is go time.

Mark Cox:
Total go time.
It's go time yet.
On the one side, we're saying go time and I've got to respond to a board or an executive team.
I'm dealing with clients, so they're going to take all my time as a new CRO.
I've got to get in front of lots of clients to understand what's going on there and put them first.
And then I've got a sales team that's watching every single thing I do.
And they're magnifying every action I make in the first 90 days.
They're trying to figure out who is he and what's he all about and what's his value system and how do I position myself and so on and so on and so forth.
It's actually one of the hardest jobs on the executive team in my view these days.
So given all of those things, what falls off the radar first?
Coaching.

Christine Laperriere:
You're exactly right.
Well, it's interesting when you say, you know, to me, coaching is something when you're in highly reactive mode, your intuition doesn't say coach.
It says direct.
I don't know about you, but that's how I feel when I'm under pressure.
I direct and control.
And when I'm more relaxed, I can coach.
So I can see why coaching is the first thing to go, especially in, like I said, those sales roles are, you know, you need to prove yourself pretty, pretty quick.
So you'd have the sense of urgency that you need to be reactive.

Mark Cox:
Well, you know, you're so right.
But as the leader, Christine, what do you like most doing?

Christine Laperriere:
Absolutely coaching all the way.

Mark Cox:
If you like coaching as I do and, you know, there really is this joy of seeing people develop, you know, exceed expectations and reach their potential and then maybe replace you.
There is a joy to that.
I think I think as leaders, our best bet these days is we do have to turn off the noise and just do what we know is the right thing to do.
Because if you react instead of respond and do all these other things and start, you know, dancing upside down and, you know, it's the functional equivalent of playing a sport without warming up.
Bad things are going to happen anyway.
So why not just do what you think you should do and your pal, your friend who went into that new role, this is exactly the conversation that she needs with the executive team before she takes the role.
I'm going to take this thing over.
It's going to get worse before it gets better.
So let's say it's a couple of quarters to ramp up.
Then there's going to be a dip in a quarter.
Then your systems processes, methodology, strategies, cadence, all those things are going to come into play after that.
But now we're into a year, year and a half before we start seeing things move in the right direction.
I think setting those kinds of expectations with her boss now, it's really important and get them in writing because then I can get in.
I'm not feeling that cadence 90 days in.
I don't feel like the bell's ringing.
And then that calmness or that approach, that leadership passes down to the team so they can calm down and they know, okay, we've got to do the right things here and it's going to take some time.
We'll set new expectations.
We'll train the team, then hold them accountable, but not in 30 days.
And then suddenly I think, you know, you start to see this, some cool things happen in terms of sales culture being a place that everybody wants to be a part of.
But it's really hard and it's hardest for the boss.

Christine Laperriere:
Absolutely.
So you can see how many people start in that worst boss camp before they actually get a chance to achieve any kind of monumental improvement in that leadership role.
So I love that.
That's very useful.

Mark Cox:
So just as I'm thinking, you know, kind of tying this up, knowing that that leadership role is so important.
And again, you would really know through the lens of sales organizations, given your experience.
I always get asked what's the return on investment of building best bosses, right?
Can you help me understand what is the financial or numeric benefit of working for a best boss?

Mark Cox:
Man, the leverage for best bosses is leverage.
If I have a great sales leader, then that person, she's going to make the team of eight salespeople better across the board.
So it's just pure leverage.
So I'm going to get that whole team to be better.
And by better, I mean they perform at a higher level, they're engaged, they're learning, they're dynamic, as a result of which they make for a better business culture.
It just has this ripple or domino effect the whole way down.
The opposite is also true.
So the worst boss at that executive team level also has a domino effect on their eight to 10 direct reports, those and so on and so forth.
Now those people are unpleasant to deal with within the organization.
They stay within their job descriptions.
They're not really engaged with the company.
They don't want the company to do well.
And so it becomes this other thing, the spiral of doom.

Christine Laperriere:
So they multiply that kind of toxicity across eight people, right?

Mark Cox:
They do.
Liz Wiseman multipliers.
That's the return on investment.
You know, you either have somebody who's diminishing the capabilities of everybody on the team or they're multiplying them and it just becomes exponential.
That's what I really think it is.
If I'm looking for a CEO today, if I am the CEO, I'm looking for teammates who are those best bosses and the domino effects, the positive domino effects on performance, culture, retention, engagement, all of those things, client satisfaction.
I think there's an absolutely direct correlation to all that stuff.

Christine Laperriere:
All right.
Any words of wisdom as we're just wrapping up all those leaders out there that are trying to learn how to keep raising the bar for themselves?
Any final thoughts for them?

Mark Cox:
Final thoughts, I would say, listen to this podcast.
This is, I was so excited to join today, Christine.
It's such a smart idea.
How do you get better at managing people and leading people?

Christine Laperriere:
Great.
Thank you so much, Mark.

Mark Cox:
Thank you for hosting me.
It's been a real pleasure being on this, Christine.

Christine Laperriere:
If you want to hear more, join me at christinlaperrier.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 44
Title: The gift of feedback
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Tonya Campbell

Christine Laperriere:
I have invited Tanya Campbell back from Scotiabank to have another chat with me.
If you didn't see, she was on the first season.
You can look up Tanya Campbell's show, but we had such a great conversation that we just decided we needed to do another one.
So today we're going to take a little different angle.
And the way we're going to approach this conversation is really about what are you doing to be a best boss?
Now, we all know that just like parenting or spousing or any of those things, it's hard to quote unquote be the best.
But what I think is special about Tanya is I know that she pursues trying to be a best boss.
So we're going to ask her about what she's doing in that pursuit.
And we're also going to learn about what are some of the challenges she faces while she's working through that.
So welcome on the show, Tanya.

Tonya Campbell:
Thank you for having me back, Christine.
I'm really excited about our conversation today.

Christine Laperriere:
Absolutely.
So just to set everybody clear, give us your title really quick again at Scotiabank.

Tonya Campbell:
I am the vice president for our mobile advice team, which is a financial planning team who does not work in a fixed office.
They are mobile.
Not to be confused with a mobile home.

Christine Laperriere:
Excellent.
And so just in spirit of where we're going today, what are some of the things you are doing in the pursuit to be a best boss?

Tonya Campbell:
Yeah, we talked last time a lot about what, you know, I have always seen or felt as a best boss, which was really founded on trust.
And so for me, I start there.
So I will always look to make sure that I am building trust with people and that my team knows that whatever I'm doing, it's in the best interest of, you know, for both of us as an employee, employer, the customer, what have you.
And so for me, it's really starting with the foundation of trust.
But I would just go one step further and say, like, OK, that's, you know, inherently there.
I think I do a pretty good job with the people I've worked with.
But where I really feel like I'm zeroing in now to take that to another level is in feedback, because I think that feedback is just such an incredible gift.
And when I really think about the bosses that I've talked about in the past, it wasn't just the trust.
When I think really deeply, it was that there was conversations and feedback that I could build off of, and that made me a better person.
And so that's what I'm trying to emulate in my world now is making sure that when I talk to people, my employees and colleagues, that I'm very curious, ask a lot of questions, but with the intent that I can give them feedback that will take their work just to the next level.

Christine Laperriere:
I love that you're picking feedback as a topic.
I know I see so many leaders that struggle with giving honest feedback.
And so a lot of the times I'm talking to leaders about what I nickname the broccoli between your teeth feedback, the feedback where, you know, if you went, how come you didn't tell me, you know, six months I walked around with this broccoli between my teeth, like, how come you didn't tell me?
What is it like for you, first of all, when you're trying to give tough feedback, tell me what, you know, how do you do that if you had to teach me?

Tonya Campbell:
Oh, goodness.
Yeah.
So when I'm doing feedback, first and foremost, I try to do it as soon as possible.
I don't like to wait.
I think it diminishes the quality of the feedback.
If you wait too long, you know, we have, you know, touch bases with our people, you know, scheduled weekly or biweekly.
And, you know, do you really wait five, seven, ten, twelve, fourteen days to give that?
So I usually try to give it as soon as possible.
And it usually just starts with like, hey, do you have two minutes to chat about that, that thing, that presentation or whatever, you know, whatever it is that I observed.
So I do try to just kind of jump in because it feels for me.
And I think for the recipient, it feels really natural when you do it right there and then.

Christine Laperriere:
So give us some examples and some stories about what you're seeing right now as you're trying to kind of live into this value of giving feedback.

Tonya Campbell:
Yeah.
So I think for me, there is sort of different groups of people.
I could bucket them into, you know, people that I've worked with for a while and they know my style and it's really easy and they've got it and what have you.
And those ones seem to be really easy.
They know me, they trust me.
We can kind of pull that apart.
I think when you're developing new relationships with new employees and also generational differences, it gets more challenging.
To be quite honest with you, there's, you know, the I struggle in this space because I think generationally, if I'm talking to people and, you know, plus or minus, 10 years of me, it works a lot better.
But for some reason, it's not landing quite as well with some in the generational differences.
And I don't know how to crack that nut.
I'm not perfect.
I'm trying to figure that out.
And I don't know if it's just how we communicate differently these days, you know, the difference between long discussions over a phone versus text messages, etc.
And I'm working on it.

Christine Laperriere:
I know I work with a lot of leaders where sometimes the the younger generations, there there's just a difference in the way that we've been raised or the way we see work and the way we perceive even the use of technology at work and conversation.
And so lots of us are trying to figure out how do we, again, bridge that gap so that we can be inclusive of our entire workforce?

Tonya Campbell:
Yeah, it's even, you know, I laugh because it's even the language, right?
So my generation was kind of like, you know, the smack on the head be tough.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Tonya Campbell:
My generation may be able to take feedback a little more openly because it's probably even to into the pendulum swinging.
And maybe the language is a little softer than what we're used to.
But, you know, I grew up in an environment where it was kind of like you take one on the shoulder, take the feedback and go.
And it was not a big deal.
And so now I find myself worrying about the language that I use.
And is it too hard or too harsh?
Is it are they going to handle it well?
And it's a bit of a pendulum swing.
So I've had some I've had a situation that I can think of not too long ago where I, you know, somebody was asking, they actually asked for feedback.
And so having been sort of burnt by a previous conversation or feedback session for this one, I tried to correct.
And I said, how do you like to receive your feedback?
Like, are you OK with shoot straight from the hip?
I'm kind of like a very direct person.
Or do you, you know, do you want to have a bit of a sandwich approach?
Like you did this really well, you could do this better.
But oh, by the way, you know, landed this one awesome.
And so it's kind of sandwiched between some awesome stuff.
And the person was like, no, no, no, just give it to me.
Like, just tell me straight.
I like the shoot from the hip.
But then I gave him the shoot from the hip.
And, you know, it was a catastrophe, right?
The person really ended up in near tears.
So, you know, I'm trying to figure it out by asking those types of questions.
And then even when I think back on the feedback that I gave in that situation, like it really wasn't in my view, it really, even though I was shooting straight from the hip, it still wasn't harsh.
It wasn't mean.
I mean, it was very, the spirit of the feedback was genuine with, you know, wanting that person to correct a certain something that I saw.
So, yeah, it's been a challenge for me to figure out this sort of delicate balance.

Christine Laperriere:
One thing I'll mention while you're talking, I think that's really interesting in doing over 50 interviews now on The Best Boss Ever.
What I have found over and over again is that people, they never say their best boss ever was because they were nice.
The one thing that I see in the reoccurring theme is that actually getting tough feedback from somebody actually ranks them as a best boss.
And I'll just say even, you know, while you were talking about that, you know, obviously you impacted that person and made them feel pretty lousy in the moment because they got that tough feedback.
But the thing that's interesting is that when I think of all the interviews I've done, first of all, the best boss that gave the tough feedback was always coming from a place of genuinely wanting to see that person grow.
So they it was never of an ego thing.
It was really not about the business.
It was about that person's growth.
And that was the reason they gave the harsh feedback.
And the second thing is, is that I don't know when I think about it, I don't know if everybody handled it well exactly in the moment.
I can think of my own experiences of getting tough feedback, and I probably wasn't smiling and saying, oh, thank you, you're my best boss.
I probably was like, ouch, that hurt.
But I think upon reflection, like the growth that comes from a piece of feedback that is that harsh is powerful.
And in retrospect, you you thank that leader.
But in the moment, you might not.
It's just a reflection I had while you were talking.

Tonya Campbell:
Yeah.
Well, I hope it's the case in this scenario that I'm talking about.
I hope that somewhere along the line, I just worry and maybe not not rightfully so.
But I worry that people aren't seeing the gift that's being given, whether and, you know, certainly I'll work on my harshness or how I deliver.
But it's always in the spirit of giving somebody a gift, because if I didn't care about them, I would give them zero feedback.
So for me, it's yes, I'll work on my delivery, but I still worry that people aren't seeing the gift that it is.

Christine Laperriere:
But I think if it's wrapped in too much, too much ribbon, you know, it doesn't land right.
I mean, I can think of a time when I was facilitating a session and I had a coach in a room and I got done with the session.
And she came up to me and said, you know, your content, you are fantastic in content, but you use self deprecating humor to a fault, to the point where it's annoying.
And I was like, oh, oh, oh, like, I remember it felt like a gut punch.
But she said it so clearly and she said, you have to stop making fun of yourself in front of the room.
You're you're actually crushing your own credibility.
And because she was so crystal clear on what the message was, I really took it home.
I didn't smile at the moment and go, thank you.
You're you're my best boss.
But I've actually publicly thanked her on LinkedIn years later because I think it was a game changer moment.
I think she actually if nobody had told me that that broccoli between my teeth and I had walked around with that for two or three years doing that, I would have never made it as far as I did.
I think she actually helped me really advance things quickly because I had a pretty massive fault that would slow my progress down.
So I think of that example and I go, you know, what if we started to talk about it as, you know, it might not feel good at the moment, that actually means that you might deliver something that could really progress somebody's performance.

Tonya Campbell:
I love that.
I think I think if there's listeners hearing us today, I think this goes both ways.
Right.
The being a receiver of feedback is it's really important to listen to this.
But also maybe I'm worried about how I'm delivering feedback, but also as a receiver, I might need to think if I put myself in the shoes of that person, they told me that they could take it straight from the hip.
Right.
But maybe as a as a receiver, I need to think about what kind of what kind of a receiver am I as feedback?
Do I need the gentle and maybe do a little bit of a check in and go like, am I able to take it?
Because if not, maybe I need to, you know, make some adjustments on my.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
It's interesting because it takes time to process real tough feedback.
But the gift of it comes once you really get a chance.
You know, oh, God, thank God I didn't do that.
Or, you know, if somebody has poor presentation skills and it's damaging their executive level relationships, if you can give that to them and they sure they're going to say, oh, I can handle it.
I know I was thinking that right before I got that piece of feedback.
I was like, I can handle anything.
Go for it.
Anything you got for me.
I, you know, I really want to know.
And then I heard that and went, oh, I just remember processing.
It took a couple of days to process that feeling kind of embarrassed that that I had been doing something so obviously wrong.
But on the flip side, you know, then coming around to.
Thank God somebody told me, thank God somebody had the courage to tell me and didn't worry about my feelings in the moment.
And they were more worried about my performance in the long run.

Tonya Campbell:
Yeah.
Well, I mean, they've literally instantly unlocked something for you.
Right.
That would have been, you know, a potential barrier.
So that unlocking is is important.
But, you know, I think that's it.
I think when I think about feedback, those are the things I struggle with is, how do I do it in a way?
Maybe I'll care less now going forward, because I'll be like, yeah, they'll wake up and they'll be grateful.

Christine Laperriere:
I'll get a thank you card later.

Tonya Campbell:
Exactly.

Christine Laperriere:
You know, I heard a really good metaphor used around conflict recently, and I think of it similar to feedback, but they were talking about conflict and making conflict more like flossing and less like a root canal.
And it's become one of my favorite metaphors lately.
More like flossing and less like a root canal.
So I think of feedback and just what you're saying about feedback.
What if we were delivered feedback on a more regular basis?
And so these broccoli between our teeth conversations are more like flossing and less like a root canal.

Tonya Campbell:
Flossing instead of a root canal.
I'll have to tell my team that one when I get back to the office.

Christine Laperriere:
Which is where that regular, just like you said, giving real time feedback and giving it frequently is really the inspiration of flossing.
Right.
It's that idea of saying, I'm going to talk about these things in small bite sized pieces on a regular basis instead of waiting till the year end and delivering the root canal.

Tonya Campbell:
Right.
But even better is if I use that analogy now with some of the people I'm struggling with, if I tell them that story, I can actually just say, hey, can we go floss?
Like, it's like giving it's almost like the permission to let's go have this conversation.
I should just preface that to that, like not all feedback is negative.
Sometimes it's really great.
So I might not I might say to them, hey, we'll use the flossing analogy when it's like it's a do better feedback.
And then that that intros it as a hey, I got some tough stuff for you to hear.
Let's go floss.
Right.

Christine Laperriere:
I like it.
And like I said, I never really thought about it until this moment, but it fits with my broccoli between your teeth analogy, too.

Tonya Campbell:
Oh, yeah, it does.
Dovetails very nicely.

Christine Laperriere:
We've built a fantastic metaphor for giving feedback on a regular basis, but we don't want you to be caught with broccoli between your teeth.

Tonya Campbell:
Yeah.
Let's see how flossing goes in the banking world.

Christine Laperriere:
That's right.
That's right.
I like it.
But I think these are really interesting ideas.
And I think, you know, maybe as people who are out there listening and are aspiring to be great bosses, I guess my question for you today is, you know, what what things would you like them to walk away with that you feel are helping you in your pursuit?

Tonya Campbell:
That's a good question.
Helping me in my pursuit is there's a couple of things I would say, just like my own development.
It's something that I think about on a regular basis.
I kind of build it into my like, you know, instead of having my head down and working hard all the time, I do stop periodically in my development and think about those things.
And what usually brings me back to, you know, refocusing and checking in on myself would be actually thinking about the best bosses I've had and emulating them.
So when I talk about the trust and when I talked about this sort of newer focus of feedback, it's because those bosses, those great bosses before me were really great at those things.
So for me, it's about emulating what worked well for me and what really inspired me to, you know, want to be a good leader in the first place.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing, amazing.
Thank you so much, Tanya, for coming on the show again.
I really appreciate it.
And I think people will be thinking about this as they move forward, being a good receiver of feedback and being a good deliverer of regular feedback.

Tonya Campbell:
It was my pleasure, and I hope everybody flosses regularly.

Christine Laperriere:
If you want to hear more, join me at ChristineLiperrier.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.