Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 58 
Title: Progress is progress
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Atsushi Yasuda

Christine Laperriere:
Now this week, I have something kind of special.
A man by the name of Atsushi Yasuda reached out to me on LinkedIn and was very inspired by what I'm doing with the Best Boss Ever podcast.
Of course, I love getting notes like this, and I'm so thankful to say that I get them quite often actually.
So as he reached out, he said, hey, my dad has really been an inspiration.
Would you be interested in the story?
And so he sent me a letter this last weekend explaining, kind of writing up a thought process to his dad.
And I just thought it was so cool that I had to read it to you.
So here it goes.
He says, I would not call this your typical story about business.
It's not about an IPO, a Gartner Magic Quadrant, or a product launch.
It's about the grind and the sources of inspiration that create change that last a lifetime.
Almost 40 years ago, when I was 17, my dad got me a summer job where he worked.
I was so excited as the hourly wage far exceeded the 365 most of my friends were making at the time.
My dad, Yoshitaka, an engineer by training, worked at a sawmill in a small town in British Columbia.
He worked alongside the salt of the earth men.
I don't really recall any women out there in the lumber yard that operated the heavy machinery, debarkers, bandsaws, and planers that made the mill hum.
He was responsible for designing and engineering the series of conveyors, hydraulics, and connected machines that took the felled trees and turned them into neat bundles of dimensional lumber.
Think the lumber section at Home Depot times a thousand.
It's a good demonstration here.
As the quintessential Asian man, my dad was a few words.
His approach to work and life was that actions will always speak far more than words ever will.
But when he did speak, you knew to listen.
The 10 minute drive to work on our first day together was uneventful until my dad started talking.
People are going to be watching you, work hard, don't be lazy, don't sit when there is work that can be done.
Geez, I thought, quite the pep talk at 7 AM.
When we got to work, we walked into his office where he handed me a hard hat and a pair of heavy duty gloves.
He put his thermos away before we walked out and down the metal stairs to the yard.
We ended up in front of the biggest gnarliest pile of scrap metal I have ever seen.
Your job is to clean up this pile of metal.
It cannot be burned, so it has to be put into the dump truck to be taken away.
For about 30 seconds, I got excited thinking that I would be driving one of those big loader trucks to get it into the truck.
You are going to carry the scraps and toss it into the box.
Whatever is too heavy, you can put into the bucket of the loader, and I will get someone to lift it once you fill it.
WTF, that meant I had to heave heavy pieces of heavy gauge metal 15 feet into the air to clear the sides of the dump truck box.
I guess that was what I needed the hard hat for.
I spent the next month clearing up the pile.
I stopped going to the gym, which was a daily ritual at the time, but I couldn't lift my arms over my head anyways.
The progress, albeit glacial, was measured by the shrinking pile.
I evaluated every single piece before I touched it.
I had to figure out whether I could lift it.
If I could carry it, I knew I could throw it.
It soon turned into a personal challenge.
I would target a portion of the pile and would go at it until it was clean.
I remember sitting on the pile while I had my lunch.
I remember my boots, new when I started, had the leather scraped off at the toes to the bare steel that was underneath within the first week.
I worked my ass off and I got it done.
But with a bit of help from the load operator, I cleared the area of the yard and I met my dad's four-week target.
I can still carry the experience with me, but over the years the lessons have evolved.
It started off as just about the physical challenges.
But as I got older and moved from steel-toed boots to laptops, airport lounges, and PowerPoint slides, I realized far more impactful lessons my dad taught me.
They aren't anything that I haven't read elsewhere, but I know it has stuck for me.
Number one, nothing replaces hard work.
It doesn't matter your profession, it takes reps.
It is that simple.
Whether you are a developer, a banker, or a plumber, or the CEO, it requires a focused investment of energy to hone your craft.
And I call bullshit if anyone tells you it's easy.
Number two, do not sit where there is work to be done.
My dad taught me in his own way to constantly look for opportunity to bring value, to take initiative and not wait to be asked.
It seems pretty basic now, but I don't think it's as obvious as it may sound.
Number three, it will look like shit until it doesn't.
It's way too easy to get caught up in the work in progress.
The pile of scrap metal that doesn't seem to be getting any smaller.
But progress is progress regardless of pace.
And most things will look like a hot mess until it's done.
And number four, be humble, proud.
It felt good when the pile of metal was gone.
But there was no parade, no party.
I wasn't even sure if my dad said anything or noticed.
Years later, I learned that he did notice.
He didn't know the effort it took.
His coworkers also took notice, which made him proud.
If you are doing something for the accolades and the fanfare, the external recognition, it isn't the right reason.
Be proud of your accomplishments and do it for the person in the mirror.
In closing, my dad has been longtime retired, but he remains the same.
At 84, he focuses his energy on maintaining a pristine yard, paying close attention to all the small details, and is still a man of few words.
I can only hope I can pass along a crumb or two of wisdom to my own kids the way my dad did for me.
Thanks, Dad.
I hope you found that letter as inspiring as I did.
And of course, I had no choice, but I had to reach out to Atsushi and ask him if he could come talk to me a little bit on the show.
So now that you've heard the letter that was sent, I have Atsushi Yasuda on the show just to talk for a minute about the impact of that letter and kind of the the inspiration behind it.
So thank you so much for being on the show.

Atsushi Yasuda:
Oh, I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you for having me.

Christine Laperriere:
So, you know, what was the inspiration when you saw the Best Boss Ever podcast?
Tell me a little bit about what went through your head.

Atsushi Yasuda:
It was funny because my first reaction was really about, oh, somebody should be writing about me.
I'm a good boss.
But then it was really more around reflecting, you know, I've been in the workforce 30 plus years now, really trying to think about it.
And I'm at a point in my career where I feel a lot of what I get satisfaction from is mentorship and coaching.
And so this is one of these takeaways was so who made an impact on me from a boss and leadership standpoint and tons of great folks, tons of great leadership.
But really the one that really kind of stuck out for me was my dad.
It feels a little bit different because it's not what I do, you know, as a livelihood.
You know, when I really start to think about it, there was a lot of lessons that I picked up from him that really that is still applying very relevant for me.
Right.
So that was kind of the impetus.

Christine Laperriere:
And what kind of person is he today?
You said he still works on his garden.

Atsushi Yasuda:
He's still he's been long retired.
I would say he's been retired trying to do the last time, I think, 20 plus years now.
He is his own man.
He could tell you what reflects what represents him is the way he retired.
I would say is I was actually home visiting over Christmas time.
And he kind of pulled me aside and says, you know, I could use your help with something, which is very rare for my dad.
And I said, sure.
What do you mean?
He says, I need you to write my resignation letter.
And I went, what do you mean?
He goes, yeah, I'm going to I'm going to retire after Christmas.
I went, OK.
But then he goes, don't tell your mother.
So this is what he thinks.
So that in a nutshell kind of reflects who he is as a person, he's still that, you know, he is a man of very few words.
And that's kind of how how I grew up with him.
I would say both my mother and father, they have been nothing more than supportive wholeheartedly for my brother and I.
But it is really one of those, I would say, quintessential Asian households where academics was kind of the priority and everything was a focus around, you know, making sure you get good grades, making sure you get a good education.
But that was kind of him.
Like he just did his business, obviously, very salt of the earth type of individual and didn't really kind of mince words.
So, you know, when he spoke, you listened.

Christine Laperriere:
I love that because, you know, some of us confuse leadership with talking.

Atsushi Yasuda:
Yeah, I would say it's the opposite, because if you're talking, all you're doing is you're just, you know, saying things that you already know by listening.
I think it's more about the the opportunity and the ability to hear other people's perspective.
So that, I think, is one of those things that I hold very true to myself.

Christine Laperriere:
Any other interesting things that he's taught you about leadership through the years?

Atsushi Yasuda:
Oh, I think it is one of those things about just I think it is about being humble.
And this is something that I take with me.
I'm not one of those individuals that I like.
I don't think I am in terms of that needs to be flashy.
I don't I don't crave the spotlight.
And he he was very much that way.
Like he, you know, your actions and your efforts and the results should speak for themselves.
And so it was really, you know, when you think about the politics that can typically come into play in a corporate environment.
That was really a disconnect for me, like growing up, because, you know, what I learned from from both my parents was really about, you know, do good work and it will kind of you will be rewarded for that.
And so I think that's one of the things that I really that I think I kind of wear as kind of my the way I conduct myself professionally.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
Amazing that.
And you just were it sounds like really brought up with a true hard work ethic.
It's kind of like get up and keep adding value.
Right.

Atsushi Yasuda:
Oh, for sure.

Christine Laperriere:
Don't just sit there and wait.
I mean, I can think of so many times where it's like somebody sitting and waiting.
And I hear a lot about taking initiative in that story.

Atsushi Yasuda:
It's funny.
One of my closest colleagues that I've known for 30 plus years, he continues to bring that piece as you.
You remember when you and I talked and I said, you know, you kept saying that you don't want to be paid unless you bring value.
And it's funny that it's something that was core to my beliefs very early on in my career.
And I still and it persists today.
And so when I work with clients, I'm constantly talking about bringing value.
Otherwise, you know, I shouldn't be here if I'm not bringing value to you and your business.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Atsushi Yasuda:
So that is that is core to who I am and how I run my business.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
And obviously has made you very successful.

Atsushi Yasuda:
Absolutely.
I like to.
Sure.
Yes.

Christine Laperriere:
Yep.
Yep.
You can own it.
See, that's the humble thing.
You don't even want to own that.
You're still thinking, well, I could I could always do better.

Atsushi Yasuda:
Absolutely.
Yeah, for sure.
It is it has to be intentional.
And I think it is core.
It is true to who I am at a very essential level is that I'm surrounded by good people.
I'm surrounded by a good team.
They do the hard work.
They do the heavy lifting.
I'm just simply there to remove obstacles, impediments.
And that's kind of my function today.
And I feel that's a big part of the function of leadership is to really kind of support the team.
And I've heard people, you know, describe me as you're the type of leader that leads from behind.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Atsushi Yasuda:
Really, I had to think about it.
But that is very true.
Like, I really don't crave that limelight or kind of that spotlight at all.
Like, I don't shy away from it, but it certainly is not something that I need to feel satisfaction or to to kind of get really kind of get jazzed up over the course of the day.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
Well, and leading from behind is another interesting one.
It's like this.
Where did we get the assumption that the leaders should be in the limelight?
But for some reason, we do.
Now you can understand why a lot of teams probably feel a little disengaged when the leaders taking the spotlight.
But leading from behind, you know, is easier said than done.
Right.
And so when you really do care more about the success of your team than your own ego.

Atsushi Yasuda:
Yes.
Yeah.
I think that's a big one.
The ego thing is is not something that I grew up with.
I think, again, that's core to who my dad is.
He does not crave or look for or has any level of ego within him.
He is true to his word.
And he kind of, you know, say what you mean and mean what you say type of approach.
And so I value that.
And you know what I took away from him.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
Anything else you want to add is we're just wrapping up today.

Atsushi Yasuda:
I'll say like something about my dad very much a neophyte when it comes to technology, although I give him credit for doing online banking and things like that.
He still watches the news coming from Japan online on his computer.
I hope he appreciates and kind of will take a bit of a moment to give himself a pat on the back.
I hope that's kind of what he will give himself the opportunity to do.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
Well, it sounds like he was an incredible influence on you.
And what's so neat is you're living a lot of his legacy.
So you're leading the same way he taught you to lead.
And so it's neat to see how that impacts so many people who get a chance to work with you and experience you.
They're getting a chance to experience that same.

Atsushi Yasuda:
Natural extension, I suppose.

Christine Laperriere:
Exactly.
Exactly.

Atsushi Yasuda:
That's cool.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, that's really cool.
Amazing.
Well, thank you again.

Atsushi Yasuda:
Thanks, Christine.
I appreciate the time.

Christine Laperriere:
If you want to hear more, join me at Christine LaPierre dot com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.