Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 54
Title: Creating a fear-free workplace
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Matt Stone

Christine Laperriere:
Today, I have on a guest, Matt Stone, he's joining us, and he got invited to the show through responding to a prompt on LinkedIn.
So Matt, thank you so much for responding.
That's gonna be a warning to everybody else that responds to my prompts on LinkedIn.
You may end up on the Best Boss Ever podcast.
So welcome, Matt.
Thank you so much for joining me.

Matt Stone:
Thank you, Christine.
It's really a pleasure to be on the podcast.
And it's a true warning.
If you respond to a Christine prompt online, it may put you in jeopardy of being on the podcast.
Be prepared.

Christine Laperriere:
That's right, I love that.
And can you introduce yourself just for everybody listening?

Matt Stone:
Sure, I've had a lot of different jobs, but almost a decade now, I don't know, it's eight, nine, 10 years or so, I've been leading, and now I'm the CEO of a company called Behavioral OS.
Its foundation was with an MIT organizational psychologist.
What I do and what we do is we work with executives to improve their performance and the performance of their teams through human strategies, what I call high growth conversations.
So focused on relationships, self-awareness, talking about the elephant in the room and showing that soft skills are actually quite hard.

Christine Laperriere:
Yes, yes, you and I both, yes.
That is amazing.
Well, very cool.
So I'm gonna go right for the kill.
So who came to mind when you saw that prompt about best bosses?

Matt Stone:
It took me a minute, but not much more than that.
And I was thinking about it and I thought about a woman named Jan Margozian.
She's long since retired.
She was at the Oregon Department of Justice years ago when I lived in Oregon.
Actually, before I even went to law school, I worked there briefly in the consumer protection department or office, I don't recall.
And she was the head of all the people who would field consumer calls, basically, complaint calls and concern calls over business improprieties or conflicts or things like that.
She just stood out immediately, absolutely immediately.
And what came to mind was she was, for lack of a better word, she was just a badass.
Nice.
Powerhouse woman, a woman in leadership.
So as a man, I was very impressed with the way that she handled so many different personalities and types of people with incredible skill, but she was not, I mean, you might say a velvet hammer.
There wasn't always velvet on the hammer.
I mean, she could really hit you hard, but she was very effective for a number of reasons and I don't wanna just blather on.
I'd like to know from you what direction to go, actually, with that, because too many things come to mind.
So yeah, Jan Margosian is my short answer.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
And so, yeah, I wanna hear about this.
So walk me through kind of the detail or the story.
Like, when you see her handling people, tell me how would Jan do it?
Give me an example.

Matt Stone:
The word I have to first come up with is authenticity.
Now, there's so many words that get thrown around.
That's one of them.
And then it gets thrown around so much that it loses its meaning.
But this is what it means in the context of Jan.
What she was thinking, what she was feeling and what she meant was exactly what she said and what she did.
So if she was angry with you, it was clear that she was angry.
What she wasn't doing was telling you that you were worthless.
What she was angry about was something that you did.
And she was going to then invest her time in correcting, informing, supporting, improving, whatever was called for, she was going to then take that step.
And I think that was actually a big differentiating factor.
This was a no shame leader.

Christine Laperriere:
Interesting.
A no shame leader.

Matt Stone:
There was no shame in her game.
She was not out to shame you.
She was out to do better, always.

Christine Laperriere:
So the point being like the frustration or whatever wasn't directed at you as a person, it was directed at the issue.

Matt Stone:
Never.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
And so it still gives you space where you can make a mistake.
You know, she might get mad about the thing, but it sounds like you personally don't have to be shamed into existence for your mistake.

Matt Stone:
She was so good at communicating in a way that was shameless in a sense, shame free, I should say, that being barked at or even yelled at by your boss.
Now, I'm not saying she yelled a lot.
I don't remember her yelling a lot.
But if she raised her voice where she was critical of you, and I observed her with others and with myself, I remember not being in fear about anything.
It was like, oh, I mean, I might've felt disappointed.
Of course there's anxiety, but not that fear that I'm not enough, that I'm going to be punished somehow, that I'm a bad person and not worthy of this job or anything like that.
It was just that behavior wasn't the best behavior or we didn't get the right outcome and we're gonna fix this together and we're all gonna learn in the process.
And I'm gonna support you in doing that.
The first sign of support is by being very honest.
And by the way, not waiting weeks or months to tell you that.
It was now.

Christine Laperriere:
So it was in the moment.
This is really interesting.
I'm just listening for some of this.
So the feedback was in the moment.

Matt Stone:
In the moment.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
The feedback was also extremely direct.

Matt Stone:
Very.

Christine Laperriere:
There was a lot of this, we're in it together though.

Matt Stone:
100%.

Christine Laperriere:
We are fixing this together.

Matt Stone:
Yes.

Christine Laperriere:
And we are gonna learn from this.

Matt Stone:
Right.

Christine Laperriere:
It's very interesting.

Matt Stone:
She was capable of taking on data.
So she was usually right.
This was a person who had a lot of experience and wisdom.
She'd come out of PR, a PR background and some other things.
And so, and she was just whip smart.
So she understood what was going on usually.
And at the same time, I don't think I had any doubt that if there were some data that she didn't have that she would have been receptive to that.
So we were in it.
It was a mutual respect that we all belong at the table even if we throw food at each other from time to time.

Christine Laperriere:
But that sounds like that would drive performance.
So, I mean, I'm always curious, obviously I'm in a very, you know, same kind of business as you are.
So when you think of the impact of having a best boss, you know, I'm always getting asked the question around return on investment.
What's the impact of working for someone like a Jan?

Matt Stone:
Oh my goodness.
Okay.
So there's the impact on the, in that case, it's not a business.
So it's a government agency whose business is serving the people in a meaningful way but it was also serving businesses because better that the agency did in protecting consumers from fraud and abuse, the better that the business community in Oregon would do that there would be trust in the businesses in Oregon that even a business that had a complaint if it's handled well, now that business's brand is actually improved because if the business cooperates and maybe there's an honest mistake, businesses are people made up of people who make mistakes doesn't mean a complaint does not equal much like her leadership style, a complaint about a business does not equal a bad business necessarily.
It's how they handle it.
And so I think the end result performance was, do we have a better, more ethical business consumer relationship in this state?
And I saw direct impact from that.
So the performance in terms of, you know, our complaints getting resolved, our consumers being protected and made whole when they are damaged in some way.
I think as far as an organization, if I were to project her leadership style, if you will, and her skills, that almost doesn't do it justice leadership style.
It was deep skill in communication at a human level.
I would say if it were a business and you were worried about retention, having a boss like Jan means you're going to have incredible retention and recruiting power because here I am, I mean, how many years later?
I mean, this has gotta be, I'm looking back now, it must have been at least 25 years ago.
I don't know the exact year.
It was a long time ago.
And I'm still talking about her, using her as a model when I evaluate other leaders.
And when I think about my decisions as a leader, I still think of her as this model.
So it's hard to really quantify the impact of one person like that.
I have to say, I think in terms of the lingering brand of that agency and that department for me, even though she's long gone from there, is that I have a positive image because of her.
So we love data, but stories are data too.
I think that in terms of in the brand world, and I've worked in the branding world as well, when you create an emotional positive connection with an entity because of positive interactions with people, it's almost hard to put a value on that.

Christine Laperriere:
Right, that physical, what that feels like for other people that have this perception of a positive brand.

Matt Stone:
Exactly, and I saw it.
I saw it with consumers who were complaining and her impact on helping them get at least clarity.
Sometimes there was nothing that you could do.
And the best you could do, which wasn't really true because by nothing you can do, meaning you may not be able to make someone financially whole because they were a party to a transaction in which they both had responsibility and the consumer made a bad choice.
And in that case, what you can do is be compassionate.
You can listen, you can give them clear information and not overstep.
Sometimes the mistake you make in a place like that is saying the wrong thing to the person, leading them astray, for example.
So Jan was very good.
Her PR background helped with this, being clear in your messaging.
Clarity is kindness.

Christine Laperriere:
Clarity is kindness, yes.

Matt Stone:
Right, so just being very, very clear.
And sometimes the resolution was the person's like, I have clarity now that I'm not gonna get the money I wanted to get back and I see my responsibility in it and I accept the reality now and I'm glad you informed me.
That was a positive outcome actually.

Christine Laperriere:
To feel that they were complete with their complaint.

Matt Stone:
Absolutely, I learned this way back my first job out of undergrad for like a pager company when cell phones were coming on.
So it wasn't exactly a high growth business.
That's right.
Meeting my quota every month was pretty tough.
And I remember the billing person who was this just, she was the sweetest woman on the planet and she answered all these awful billing questions and I remember her telling me how she would handle it and she would just really listen to people and she would care for them as human beings about how they felt about their bill.
So many times it's the bill that they owed.
I mean, it wasn't actually us.
They were upset and so just giving them space and validity that they were upset.
So often resolved the problem.

Christine Laperriere:
Wow, that's brilliant.
Now, when we first started talking, you said that another leader came to mind a very quick run in with a great leader.

Matt Stone:
Yeah, he was the vice president of a company I worked for briefly in a startup.
The name is Terry.
Terry's still active.
I might even tag him on this at some point.
Terry Ravnak, if you're out there, I think he's in California now, I'm not sure.
He was really, really incredible.
And one of the things that I really respected about him was again, another clear communicator.
He was working in a difficult situation.
Terry was willing to tell you what was holding you back.
And in my case, it was the way I was communicating with particularly one person.
He gave me this incredible feedback one time and he said, look, I see big things for you and here's what I see for you.
Here's the vision.
So he started with an inspire kind of flow which worked really well for me.
It wouldn't necessarily work for everyone.
We're all different, different circumstances.
He was very attuned to sort of what was important to me.
And he said, one of the things you're going to need to do is you're going to need to figure out how to have a good relationship with this person.
Whatever that takes, figure it out.
In this case, did he offer me a whole lot of support in how to do it?
No, but that actually, and this is where platitudes can fall short.
We gotta be aware of the guru platitude posting syndrome.
It's contextual.
In this case, that was the perfect thing to say to me.
Right.
He knew I was capable of figuring that out.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, you didn't need him.
He just needed to tell you, this will hold you back.

Matt Stone:
I needed clarity and accountability with some inspirational cinnamon sugar on top.
So I knew what I was going to be, that there was a beautiful future.
He saw the goodness and capability in me.
This was something that was going to prevent that from winning the day and allowing me to be my best self and reach my potential.
It was fantastic.
I'll never forget the way he communicated.
Again, we were working very challenging, volatile situation.
And Terry just handled so many difficult situations with grace, kindness.
I'll never forget him.
He's a great guy.
Great boss.

Christine Laperriere:
That's amazing.
Can you think of an example?
I can hear some of the feedback, obviously, that he gave you when you're talking about some of those difficult situations.
Any other kind of different memories that come to mind?

Matt Stone:
About Terry specifically, I can think of just there were conflict issues while I was there and even after I was there.
And I remember thinking there was a dispute that I had with the company after I left.
And he was representing the company on the other side.
And what's interesting was, I was quite upset about something.
And as upset as I was, I was never upset with him.
He was doing his job.
And I knew that he'd be a person in my universe that I'd have a relationship with if I wanted to forever.
And that there was just a healthy human respect there.
And I think that's what so many of us out there are trying to cultivate in our own spheres of influence and work is that actually conflict is an incredible opportunity for growth.
Incredible.
Absolutely.
Sometimes it reveals something in me that I need to resolve, it usually does.
Sometimes my end result is, okay, I see that it's rooted in something that I'm not willing to live with, but it always reveals if I'm paying attention.
And so I think that was the other thing comes to mind is just his ability to manage himself through conflict in a way that was so dignified.

Christine Laperriere:
That is fantastic.
These are both great stories.
And I'm hearing kind of that reoccurring theme of they don't forget the human element, right?
It seems like that human element stays a priority in the conflict, in the difficult moment, in the moment which somebody screws up on the team.
I just hear over and over again, it's like we're staying focused on resolving the conflict, not painting the person with a brush, right?
Or making it personal.
They knew how to protect that.

Matt Stone:
That's right.
I mean, it's probably to trite is the word, I think, that you need to figure out how to best leverage what is.
And to put it in non jargony speak, accept it.
And work to change what you can, but okay, this is the circumstance at this moment.
I'm going to make the most of it.
It may be less than ideal by a mile or kilometers, depending on where you're at, but really coming into acceptance and included in that acceptance is that I, I might have some growth opportunity here as well.
As dug in as I am about my position or a resentment or the threat I feel, it's possible that this may be a growth opportunity for me if I'm willing to look at myself, which is not always easy to do.

Christine Laperriere:
That's great.
And I just have to ask when you say best leverage what is, are you a Byron Katie fan?

Matt Stone:
I could be, I don't know.

Christine Laperriere:
You have to look.
She wrote a book called Loving What Is, and that's what I thought you were calling out there.
I was like.

Matt Stone:
Yes, I am, of course.

Christine Laperriere:
That's right.
That's exactly where it came from.
She has the same exact philosophy is like learning to accept what is and really work with that instead of trying to hope for something that is not currently available.
And sometimes conflict has that, you know, it's like we get fixated on wanting something to be different than it is.
And we can't get past that.

Matt Stone:
And I love that.
And what's coming to mind is sometimes when I'm, if it's my small self working, I would rather blow it up to get the definitive results and finality of it than deal with the struggle of letting it just be and go on and give it time or me to grow and heal and resolve and whatever I need to work through and for whatever other situation or other people to do their own, you know, to do their own process.
So yeah, that's a really good point.
Thank you.

Christine Laperriere:
That's fantastic.
So now if you were to just go to the bosses that did not stand out, let's say on the list of favorites, I'm curious, what's your experience been there?
Like what are the things that, you know, really didn't work for you?

Matt Stone:
Well, first and foremost is lies.

Christine Laperriere:
Yep.

Matt Stone:
I mean, that's just so foundational.

Christine Laperriere:
It sounds foundational, but everybody in business knows somebody who's done that before.

Matt Stone:
Oh, yeah.
I mean, it's a standard operating procedure of many, of many, unfortunately.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
So it sounds obvious, but it's not obvious, obviously.

Matt Stone:
Well, maybe obvious isn't the right word, right?
I mean, to the extent that humans are economic animals, you know, we are driven by incentives and there are people who are promoted in spite of, or because of, listen, I don't know about you, I've come across far too many situations of executives who were promoted at least once or more times to move them from a place rather than to a place.

Christine Laperriere:
Yes, I know exactly what you're talking about.

Matt Stone:
So we then put a cherry on, oh, well, we can't upset this person, but they're leaving dead bodies behind them.
So let's move them to another place.
And the bigger the organization, the more options you have, so you can spread the toxins around.
And so the feedback loop that that person is getting is that they're great.
Yep.
It's not only not fair to all the people that come encounter with that person who is not fully realized in their maturity, but that you're robbing them of the ability to have accountability.
I recently fired a personal trainer.
He was relatively new.
I thought that he might have the skills to do it, but he showed up late twice.
The first time he showed up late, I made it very clear to him that a priority for me was that I was gonna meet him and pay a significant amount of money and time that I expected him to show up early and that I too would show up early and actually warm up and prepare so that we could maximize that hour that we had together.
Because for me, the exercise is part of my job.
It's part of my performance.
And he showed up late a second time and I was not going to talk to him about it.
I was not going to, we're not gonna have any kind of conversation.
You fired yourself.
That's what I told him.
And he wanted another chance and there was a reason why.
It doesn't matter.
It's always a reason.
Right, it's always a reason.
And I said, so now I'm not gonna go around the gym and bad mouth you, but you deserve early on in your quote unquote entrepreneurial, I'm a trainer mode, you deserve accountability so that you will always remember this day when your client told you, you were fired at a bench press and you will never forget it.
And I doubt you're gonna be late again.

Christine Laperriere:
Right, you delivered him a favor whether he knows it or not.

Matt Stone:
I didn't tell him he was a worthless trainer.
I didn't tell him that he had no future.
So you're gonna do great with other clients and you're gonna do great in part because I was honest with you today.
And I draw that from experience that I had with leaders like Jan and Terry.
So I can't give away what I don't have.
And people like that and other friends in my life, people that I have, have taught me what it feels like to be on the receiving end of that kind of message.

Christine Laperriere:
So you, and you know, like there's gratitude in it even though it doesn't feel great in the moment.

Matt Stone:
Yeah, he wasn't happy.

Christine Laperriere:
No, usually most of us aren't when we're getting that tough message.
But I would agree with you that so many leaders that I talked to remember the tough feedback that they got and they were grateful for it down the road.

Matt Stone:
So that's it.
So I go back to lies.
And I think there's other things that we all know and experience.
But first and foremost, telling the truth.

Christine Laperriere:
I think the lies, it's so interesting when you say that because you're even referring to not so much the individual that has the problem with being honest.
You're talking about the entire organization that can't be honest with the individual.
And I think that's really interesting.

Matt Stone:
If an organization in my view, in my experience, if an organization has leaders who lie and leaders who lie and manipulate, but manipulates one thing.
I mean, that's tricky.
What's manipulation?
What's influence?
Can get to a point where they're binary.
That's actually one of those things where I can objectively determine if something was a lie.
I know, because I'm a former lawyer and you can determine whether or not something is a lie.
Did they consciously know the truth and say the alternative?
And we know from our society that people lie a lot.
So if an organization promotes and nurtures leaders who knowingly misrepresent truth about small things, about big things, then I don't need to know, I don't need to know much more data about the company to know what's going to happen eventually.
It may take a while, but it's just a matter of time.
You are corrupted.
It's just a matter of time.
That's the only data I need.
So to me, it sort of begins and ends with truth.
If I'm someone who's not very, if I'm prickly and I'm not very honestly, I can work with someone who's not full of empathy.
I just need them to care at some level enough about me to tell me the truth.

Christine Laperriere:
I love that.
That is good.
And you've obviously experienced that in both directions.

Matt Stone:
Oh yeah.
Haven't we all?

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, absolutely.
Oh, I was going to say, I can think of so many situations that match up with this.
And then, I guess to me, any other wisdom that you would give, I've got so many leaders who are aspiring to be amazing bosses and they're listening to this show.
So tell me, do you have words of wisdom for them just as we come to wrap this up?

Matt Stone:
We hear a lot of words like empathy, even feedback is meaningless until you give it a real depth.
I've described what it means for me in these contexts, but it means nothing unless you're talking about the context of things.
So relying on platitudes for leadership is, we're just buried in information is not where it's at.
It's really, so even authenticity, it's like, okay, yes, be authentic, but keep searching for what it means to you.
Why, we talk about Simon Sinek got famous with asking about your why.
And that's really important.
When it comes to self-awareness in these kinds of conversations, often asking what, not why can be actually more powerful.
And Tasha Urick, my friend, who's just an amazing practitioner and brilliant author and researcher has a TED talk on this, ask what, not why.
Fantastic, recommend watching that.
But really get feedback, develop an environment where you have people who will tell you the truth because the higher up people go, the harder it is for them to get the truth.
You have to work hard.
If there's a graph, it's like the higher up I am, the more I have to work to get honest feedback.
I have to really convince people that it is truly not only safe, I have to incentivize people to give me.
So that means I find people who will give me the truth.
I really listen to it.
I take it in, I process it.
It may not be actually valid for me.
It may be more about them than me, but I take it in and I follow up.
And one of the best ways to start learning how to do that is through just the easy, well, the so-called easy one, which is when people help you or giving praise or how you receive praise.
So start with the positive to get more comfortable with that kind of direct dialogue.
And then you will build a relationship, number one, built on, it's very hard for people to give praise, really, other than, you know, attaboy or, you know, it's like- 

Christine Laperriere:
Like deep, genuine praise.

Matt Stone:
Like genuine, yes.
So you practice, what is it that you appreciate about a particular colleague of yours specifically and why, and what did it mean to you?
And go that second level and say, hey, Christine, I wanna explain to you what it meant when you stepped in for me at that meeting last week.
I noticed that you changed the presentation for the better that you gave.
I gave you that template.
And here's the feedback I got from other people.
And this is what it means to me, and frankly to us at this point where we can move forward.
Like giving that full, and then your job as a leader is to be able to take it and not deflect.

Christine Laperriere:
That's probably equally as hard, yes.

Matt Stone:
So both of us have this role.
So whatever role you're in receiving or giving, go all in on it.
That's an opportunity to get comfortable having direct dialogue that's open and it's vulnerable to do that.
Then when you and I have an issue that we need to resolve between us, guess what foundation we're gonna have.

Christine Laperriere:
Right, rock solid, yep.

Matt Stone:
Rock solid.
I'm still gonna be nervous.
That just shows I care, but I'm gonna be able to either receive that criticism from you, or I'm gonna be able to deliver a message that's hard to deliver, and with more trust that you're gonna know that I'm not attacking you as a person.
That's what we gotta do in every organization, in every community, at the government level is facilitate, number one, people who are willing to do that work into those leadership roles and then providing the incentives and support for them to do that difficult stuff.

Christine Laperriere:
Listen, that was so good that I'm gonna wrap right there.
I think you gave everybody some really amazing feedback there.
That's like a mic drop moment, so I'm not gonna mess with it too much.
That's right, don't drop your mic out.
Don't drop your mic.
Thank you, Matt.
That was amazing and so insightful, and I have a feeling lots of people are gonna be thinking about the what, not the why, thinking a little bit about their own authenticity.
I loved how you talked about shame and shameless leadership.
I think that's a brilliant idea for so many of us to think about.
And then this last but not least, just kind of how you build a foundation of trust so you can have real conversation, real feedback, and kind of what that really means.
So loved it.
Thank you so much, Matt.

Matt Stone:
Thank you.
It's been just a pleasure to spend some time with you today.

Christine Laperriere:
If you wanna hear more, join me at christinlaperrier.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.