Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 62
Title: 
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Marianne Haegeli

Christine Laperriere:
Today, I have a special guest, Marianne Haegeli, who is actually calling from Zurich, Switzerland right now, which we're so excited to have you.
We met through a mutual connection, so I just love the fact that this idea inspired you and that you agreed to sign up to talk to me on the show.
Thank you, Marianne.

Marianne Haegeli:
Well, thank you, Christine, for having me.
I'm very excited to be here.
It actually feeds in really well that I'm calling from Zurich today.
We have a new pilot project going at our parent company called Work From Anywhere for one week out of the year, which I think is a brilliant leadership project to implement.
I'm taking full advantage because I also provided training to all employees on how you can make this a success.
Of course, I had to test it out, obviously.

Christine Laperriere:
I think that's perfect.
That is perfect.
You're getting a chance to enjoy your life outside of work this week.
Probably see some exciting sights.

Marianne Haegeli:
Yeah, well, it's family that I have here, and so I had to manage everybody's expectations because of the six hour time difference where I am right now.
It's eight o'clock at night, so I get to spend the mornings having coffee and do fun stuff with my friends and my family.
And then at two p.m., it's nothing but work.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
That sounds amazing.
And I think a lot of people out there would love that type of flexibility.
So and tell us really quick, just a little bit about you, just so that everybody listening gets a little bit of context.

Marianne Haegeli:
Yes, I am currently the director for learning and leadership at a very small startup called Ensight, N-S-I-T-E.
And we are an enterprise of the national industries for the blind.
And so I'm going to introduce myself the way I would with any of our audience members when we do training.
I'm a 61 year old white woman.
I wear glasses, have very short hair.
I like to tend it salt and pepper, but I think it's trending heavily to just salt right now.
So that gives you an idea that I've been in the field of learning and development for longer than I care to admit.
And I've worked for nonprofits, for for-profits, for the U.S.
government, for private schools, for institutions of higher education, and loved every bit of it.
And what I'm doing for Ensight right now is building really, I don't think it's an exaggeration to say it's the first ever comprehensive employment readiness and career skills training from blind and visually impaired folks.
And then we help them get gainfully employed.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
I'm doing an applause, a silent applause, because I don't, but you know what, I love to hear that.
That sounds like you're adding big value to some people's lives out there.

Marianne Haegeli:
I really feel that way.
I mean, a lot of people out there do similar things that we do.
And I have to tell you, there's never a day where I wonder why I get up in the morning.
I am loving this job and getting into this kind of engagement at my stage in my career is just unbelievable.
I feel so fortunate.

Christine Laperriere:
That's amazing.
So I'm going to dive right into our big question.
Who, if you have one or I'll leave the question open to you, but who is your best boss ever?

Marianne Haegeli:
I have three best bosses ever.
Lucky.
Yeah, I've been very fortunate.
So it's kind of what makes them the best boss ever at that time in my career, kind of defines how my career progressed.
The first best boss ever was when I started working for a large consulting firm, government consulting around the area.
And he was just amazing because he, within minutes, figured out what made me tick and never stopped asking what made me tick and responded to that by being the best possible manager I could ever have.
He gave me enough leeway to get creative, innovate.
He asked for my opinion, but he was always there if I needed him.
So he provided me the brilliant consulting apprenticeship.
And I'll tell you a story that really formed the way I view my role or have viewed my role ever since.
My very first engagement with that company was a huge transformation project with the Department of Homeland Security.
Project meeting, government leads there, and our project manager, who was not my best boss ever, but I equate the two because they have the same attitude, were in this meeting.
And I'm sitting there thinking, okay, this is going to be one of these dull kickoff meetings for a major project.
And this colleague of mine said to the government project manager, the following words, we're glad to be back.
You've had us back three years in a row.
Every time we gave you our services, we made our recommendations and you didn't implement and you didn't transform.
I'm here to tell you that this is the last time that in good conscience, we can take your money.
So if you again, don't implement our recommendations, we will not bid on the next contract.
And I almost fell off my chair and I thought this is what you want in an ethical consultant.
And that was the attitude of the whole organization and my best boss ever at that time personified all of that.
So to me, that was a key.
I love the integrity that stands behind that, right?
Yeah.
And it's usually not the reputation of government consultants, right?
They're viewed as slimy and somewhat, you know, cutting corners, but this was very much a no surprises approach in every single one of our projects.
You will not hide stuff from the client ever.
And amongst ourselves, we live that as well.
So that whole transparency and building of trust was just utterly amazing.
So that was very formative for me.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
I love that example too, because it just sends the message, right?
You're leading with integrity and transparency and you're not, we're going to hit the nail on the head with that.
Amazing.
So then you had two more, so keep going.

Marianne Haegeli:
Yeah.
So the second one was an amazing leader in terms of innovation and taking my expertise seriously, which is not always the case, especially at that time, I was a young woman working for a somewhat older director level manager.
And I had done some work for the state department, some really innovative stuff, and they hired me as the trusted advisor for the state department because we were implementing worldwide new visa information systems.
Crazy stuff.
It was a no cost to the government contract to the tune of about a hundred million.
Now I had to learn the for-profit world.
I came from being a government consultant and now I'm in the for-profit world where I have to figure out business cases that I have to sell to the C-suite and it's no cost to the government.
So even a bigger company than the other one I just described, this company went at risk to the tune of tens of millions of dollars, taking it in one little applicant fee at a time.
So it was a huge risk for the company, but this director gave me the best apprenticeship ever in terms of thinking through the process of a really complex operation in a foreign country where you had to consider local laws, you had to consider currency exchange rates, cultural considerations about how to do business in a contact center in El Salvador.
It was amazing.
And the way he taught was to sit down and say, okay, let's figure out Polish pricing.
And we'd literally have the proverbial napkin in a beer garden in Germany.
And we'd map out every step that we could think of that we needed to come up with pricing that will work.
It was fantastic.

Christine Laperriere:
So it sounds like not only was he extremely thoughtful about your expertise and taking it seriously, it also sounds like he was really able to think about the customer and the process and the experience right through the end user, if you call it.
I'm hearing that it wasn't, like you said, local laws and currency.
And what is that person experiencing when they're interacting with this?

Marianne Haegeli:
Yeah, exactly.
It went from not just the client, but also the end user.
What tiny little pieces need to go into this?
And it was literally, you felt like an eagle at that table, even though my experience was nothing close to what he was bringing to the table.
But he never gave me the feeling that I was ignorant or just didn't understand.
We were sitting there and he would say, okay, now we need to factor this in and then there's probably going to be value added tax that we need to factor in.
Or maybe that's not a thing in this country.
And can we take the call that the call will originate in Germany?
Can we answer it in Turkey?
And then we would explore together how we can find a solution.
And always with both the end user, the visa applicant in mind, and the client at the government side, the consular officers, how do we make their lives easier?

Christine Laperriere:
Wow.

Marianne Haegeli:
But it was this feeling I got that I wasn't equal.
I had expertise on the visa side, he had expertise on the business case side, and together we were working to find a solution.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
That's amazing.
And it was truly, you know, for you, that feeling of being valued at the table probably brought more creativity and more ideas.

Marianne Haegeli:
Yeah, the confidence after a while, right?
You'd still go and check back, obviously, with everything.
But it was just amazing to see how something could come out of very little knowledge on my part with the right mentoring and support from somebody with all the experience that I didn't have.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
So he valued the way you think, but maybe not the depth of experience necessarily.

Marianne Haegeli:
Exactly.
But he knew he had a vested interest in getting me to that experience level, because within a year, year and a half, all he needed from me, I submitted stuff for approval, and he knew it was going to be there.
And he had trained me the best way I could have ever been trained.

Christine Laperriere:
That's amazing.
So I'm just making notes because these are such great ideas.
Third boss.

Marianne Haegeli:
The third boss is my current boss.

Christine Laperriere:
Okay.

Marianne Haegeli:
Totally new thing.
I really felt now I'm coming to this with a lot of experience.
I almost didn't apply for the job because I thought they're looking for somebody with experience dealing with blind and visually impaired folks.
And even though I've had some, I have some friends with issues like that.
I had a former business partner, but I felt I didn't know enough to apply for this job.
And then I did anyway, because it just sounded too cool to be true startup environment.
And at my age, who wouldn't want to get involved in a startup?
So startup, innovation, all of this.
So we have this first interview and I said to him, I got to ask you a question, because I've seen this in other nonprofits before, right?
And so it is a nonprofit and you say you want innovation and you say you want entrepreneurial spirit.
And I need to find out whether that's really true, because I've seen that in other places where they say they want it.
And then you come with crazy ideas and they say, ah, you know what?
We've always done it this way.
Let's just stick to that.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
Stop getting out of the box.
Let's put you back in the box.

Marianne Haegeli:
And he was, his answer was brilliant.
He said, listen, this has never been done before.
We need to not just think outside the box.
We need to work from way beyond the box to make this a success.
It's going to be a wild ride.
I'm telling you, we have the support of an amazing parent company, which is more than most startups have.
And I am telling you now the reason I want you in this role is because of your crazy background with other weird projects that came out of nowhere.
And the other thing I think really appealed to him was my intercultural background.
If you haven't noticed that, I'm not just calling from Zurich, but that cute accent I have is Swiss.
So I've lived in the States almost 40 years.
I've lived in Pakistan for two years and in Germany for two years, and I've traveled all over the world.
And to me, intercultural competency and intercultural understanding is what I believe makes me a better leader because every time I open my mouth, I'm trying to figure out how do I need to say this in this environment so that it arrives in an intelligible way with my audience, whoever that may be.
And I think my current best boss ever gets that because he's also well traveled and dealt with a lot of different cultures.
So it's just been amazing.
And with him, I get even more trust.
We will sit down and he will say, this is a challenge.
What do you think we should do?
And that is such an honor for me.
And it forces me to think very carefully because sometimes my crazy ideas come out a little too fast.
But then we can sit down together and figure it out.
And yes, I have not been disappointed.
He wants outside the box.
Yes, he wants and encourages innovation.
And also, like my first best boss ever is there to support me when I need it.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
So give us some examples of that.
Tell us even more.
What does that look like?
You know, if I was following you around around the world and getting a chance to see all of this in action, what things would I notice?

Marianne Haegeli:
So let me put it in maybe a better known leadership model.
I've worked a lot.
I've done a lot of leadership development training and I'm relying a lot on Blanchard and their concept of a situational approach to leadership.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Marianne Haegeli:
So their argument is that as an effective leader, you need to match your leadership style, not only to the individual, but also to the task at hand, because that individual at this task may need more guidance than on another task.
And the example we have, we migrated at one of my former employers from a regular phone system to voiceover IP.
We had an amazing communications director, strategic communications.
That guy was a wizard.
We worked this transition and all of a sudden he was lost.
He said, I don't know how to do this.
I have to use my computer to make a phone call.
What is this?
This was pre-pandemic for everybody learned.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Marianne Haegeli:
So while he was the consummate expert in all things strategic communications, he was an absolute beginner on how to use this new technology.
So micromanagement and hands-on guidance was required until he became more comfortable and then you can let go a little more.
And so it became a six month training experience where, you know, he was able to get more proficient and I was able to step back a little every month and things worked out really well.
But for that to be successful, I had to understand that he was from a different generation, that he was used to picking up a phone and having that receiver in hand.
And I had to figure out how to take the fear of the technology out of him and show him that it's absolutely the same thing.
Instead of picking up the receiver, you click on that phone icon.
So you have to just think about, you know, how he's very insecure in this situation when normally he's the consummate expert.
That's a scary place to be.
So you can't walk in and say, well, it's really simple.
Here's five steps.
Just follow the list.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
You needed the handholding and support to help build the new habit and build the new skills.
And then you, as you coach him through that, you can slowly start to move away from that again.

Marianne Haegeli:
Yeah.
And so to me, that's, that's what leadership should be all about.
Leadership we all know is not about the leader.
It's about everybody else, right?
When you move to a different culture, it's incumbent upon you to figure out how that culture functions and how to communicate effectively within that culture.
And that's the same with leadership.
I don't talk to all of my colleagues the same way.
I adjust and not just to that colleague, but on the task we're talking about and possibly on the time of day or how they're feeling on that given day.
And I have to tell you, for me, one of the reasons why this is an absolute dream job right now is because not only is it yet another apprenticeship, but it's a cross-cultural adventure.
I am now we have two colleagues on the team who are completely blind and one who is visually impaired.
And it's a daily challenge for me to make sure that everything I produce is accessible to them.
I spend an ordinary amount of time sitting with them and saying, okay, tell me what you see as you're using your screen reader.
Is my PowerPoint presentation accessible to you?
Where could I do better?
And I have learned so much in the last year and a half.
It's utterly amazing.
And the learning continues.
So I'm learning a new language.
I'm learning a new culture, and I get to innovate.

Christine Laperriere:
I mean, it's the trifecta.
Amazing.
That is so great.
Well, listen, I love that.
And I love the stories of those three bosses that you shared.
So just bringing this back to, and I want you to think about this, given all the different experience you have, what is the business case?
What's the impact to the bottom line if an organization has a best boss ever versus not?

Marianne Haegeli:
It's huge.
I think if you have a best boss ever, and again, I'm a little biased.
I mean, it is intercultural stuff, right?
But if that best boss can use those cultural competencies, those intercultural competencies to figure out how to talk to each person the way they need to hear whatever the message is, whether it's a difficult conversation or a motivational speech or saying, here's the bottom line.
Let's go get it, whatever it is.
If they're capable of doing that, then the business will take care of itself.
You don't have to apply excessive guidance.
You can really just motivate people to be the best at what they are.
I think the other thing that's really important about a best boss is that they build a team based on how the team fits together, keeping in mind the end goal.
Sometimes it's not the person with the very best skill and years of experience.
Sometimes it's the person who's the best fit culturally.
You can always add skills, but fit is difficult sometimes.
I think it's absolutely key to success to have a best boss.

Christine Laperriere:
When you think of leaders that you've worked with who they don't ring the bell of your favorite, and maybe they limited or stifled your creativity or some of what you bring to the table, tell us a little bit about what are the traits of that kind of leader?
What do we want to watch out for?

Marianne Haegeli:
Yeah, I have a beautiful example of that, too.
I had a leader who got hired in after I was there for a while, and the first thing they told me when they walked in was, I don't really know anything about what you do in learning and development.
That's going to be your thing.
Move on.
Admitting that they know nothing about what I do is not the problem.
The problem came when within two or three months, they didn't seem to believe in my expertise.
Well, if you're not the expert, but I was hired because I'm supposed to be the expert, and you will not only not ask for my opinion before you make decisions, but you will certainly never take my suggestions and stifle my innovative and entrepreneurial spirit, that is absolutely moralizing.
And again, I don't expect a leader to know everything.
On the contrary, I think an effective leader hires people who are completely unlike them and compliment their strengths and build it in that way.
I don't want to have 15 mini-me's running around.
That's not going to go anywhere.
I need somebody who is not Marianne.
There's stuff I know I'm not very good at.
Those are the people I want to hire who have those skills that I'm missing.
So that was a problem for me.

Christine Laperriere:
Well, and it's so interesting because you just pointed out something like, so the person just didn't include you or didn't invite your expertise to the table.
And so sometimes it's funny and we think of a not great leader as somebody who says something terrible or does something awful.
But the truth is, it's almost what they don't do.
It's the vacuum of what was missing.

Marianne Haegeli:
Well, you know, and part of the problem is invariably there be fallout and guess who gets to deal with that.
Those are the challenges.
Again, I have no issue with you being open about not having the expertise.
That's why you have me.
But then just ignoring the fact that you have that expertise on your team, that's the problem.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
And so just to kind of pull this together, there are some amazing leaders out there listening to this right now, trying to sharpen their skills to be best bosses.
If you had to give them any tips, tricks, practices, things that you really want them to take away from what you shared today, what would you advise them to do?

Marianne Haegeli:
Do anything you can to become aware of what's going on with your team members.
Right.
I mean, it's that active listening, that genuine interest and what makes them take and what's happening with them today in this moment.
I know we get buried in work and we forget to listen and because we don't have time or whatever.
I have a rule where I tell my team members, I know I get frazzled sometimes, but if you need my undivided attention, tell me I need you for two minutes in the conference room and you will have my undivided attention.
I'll drop anything and you'll have my undivided attention because if I stop paying attention to what it is you need, I am not doing my job.
So it's that cross-cultural understanding.
It makes you vulnerable, which is actually a good thing because you can admit that sometimes things are too much for you too.
Right.
Yep.
But if you make an effort to understand them, I guarantee you they'll make an effort to understand you and it will be, the sky is going to be the limit in terms of meeting your business goals.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
Well, listen, thank you so much for sharing your wisdom with us.
I definitely will say wisdom because I got lots of amazing nuggets and I'm sitting here smiling at all these great ideas that you just filled my head with.
So thank you, Mary Ann, so much.

Marianne Haegeli:
Thank you, Christine.
It's been an absolute pleasure.

Christine Laperriere:
If you want to hear more, join me at christinlaperrier.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.