Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 47
Title: This is extreme integrity
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: James Vasquez

Christine Laperriere:
Today, I am so excited to have James on the show.
He reached out to the show and had some really inspiring ideas of who his best boss was, best bosses, and so today I'm going to be here to interview James.
James, welcome, and please introduce yourself.

James Vasquez:
Thank you so much for having me on your show.
I really appreciate it.
My name is James Vasquez for our listeners out there.
I'm an entrepreneur.
I own several businesses, one of which is called Learn How to Start a Business, where I train and educate people how to start their own business.
So for me, your show is perfect because I'm an educator at heart, and I have learned so much from previous bosses that I felt compelled to reach out to you.
So thank you for having me.

Christine Laperriere:
That's amazing.
These are really fun because, again, they're not a setup, right?
We don't know each other, so we're getting a chance to have this perfect conversation that I love.
I always say it's my favorite airport conversation.
You're sitting there waiting for your plane, and you say, who is your best boss?
Tell me about him.
So with that, I'm going to dive right in, and I'm going to say, tell us about those best boss or best bosses that inspired you to reach out.

James Vasquez:
Sure, Christine.
It's so funny you say that about airport conversations and so forth, because I think that this subject matter is something that we all can relate to in some way or another.
I mean, we've all had bosses in the past, some great, some not so great.
Right.
So for me, I feel that I wanted to reach out to you only because I've had both experiences, and one thing is the huge takeaway that I've had is that you can learn something from a bad boss almost as much as you can learn something from a really good boss.
So that was something I wanted to reach out to you for.
I just like to kind of tell it as it is.
As we were talking, I'm from Brooklyn.
I'm born in New York.
I'm a New Yorker, so I just like to tell it straight.
I don't like to hold anything back.
So that was really what I wanted to reach out to the show for.
And for me, I've actually been able to identify at least two key bosses, if you will, in my career that have helped, I guess, formulate my way of thinking, my actions, my behaviors, and so forth.
And I think for me, at least, Christine, the way I've identified what, in essence, makes a quality or good boss or even just some type of leader is, number one, they should have effective communication.
I believe that you really need to be able to effectively listen and be able to communicate to your employees, to your fellow staff members, or whoever it is, just to provide clear instruction.
You have to really be able to understand their needs and concerns.
So I really believe that's one of the top for me.
You also have to have the, I guess, empathy.
You have to be able to really have that ability to understand and manage to be able to respond to your team, to your people, because at the end of the day, we are all humans, and we all need to be able to understand that.
And that's what we always have to maintain in terms of our communication, at least, again, the way I see it.
And lastly, you really have to be fair.
You have to have fairness.
You have to be able to have a high-level integrity, because at the end of the day, you're making decisions that impact other people's lives, the business that you're running, or the business that you're working for.
And you really have to have your team or your people confiding you, because at the end of the day, everything is about teamwork, and a leader or a boss is just kind of the figurehead or the person responsible for getting things done.
So I think those three, in my opinion, are what identifies a quality leader.
So I have two of which I found in my thought processes, as I was preparing for the show, or actually when I reached out to you.
And coincidentally, they were both actually at the same company that I worked at, just at two different segments of my career.
And we're going back a few years.
So the company was a manufacturer of entertainment and consumer goods products, including confections.
That was the category of company.
They were a big company.
They had, geez, I don't even know how many employees, to be honest with you, but they were doing about 500 million in sales.
So they were not a small company.
They have world-recognized brands and so forth.
So the position that I worked with this first boss that I'll mention was I was literally her second-in-command.
So she ran the entire department, and it was me and her, and then we grew together organically the department.
So I was involved in a lot of the decision-making.
I was involved in a lot of the hiring and so forth.
But essentially, she was the boss, and she was hired to do such.
So one of the things that I like to say, and again, given my three qualities, she was a horrible communicator.
She was brilliant.
Don't get me wrong, Christine.
She was literally off the charts in terms of intelligence.
I can't even remember what her IQ was, but I will tell you, she was an avid reader.
She would read almost a book a day.
I mean, she was off the charts smart, and I think that was a detriment because she felt everyone else should be at that level.
So her communication, and that's where the disconnect was, and I like to study people and how they act and forth.
So for me, it was very interesting to learn more about her and her background and how she came about because she had very clear ideas of what it meant to her to be in charge.
And a lot of it was from her upbringing.
I mean, all of us are impacted by that in some way, shape, or form, her to a very high level.
And her intelligence was such that she leave anything almost to anyone to assume she, but she didn't clearly communicate it.
So for me, the first step was she wasn't a clear communicator.

Christine Laperriere:
So can you just tell me real specifically, what can you can remember about?

James Vasquez:
Absolutely, Christine.
There were several occurrences.
So one of such was we had to manage the marketing department, as well as the creative development for the particular brands to be able to get them into the marketplace.
So one of the things that we had met with one of the marketing leaders was to be able to communicate on package what the unique selling proposition was and what would make it so that a consumer will be able to instantly pick it up on shelf because it was an impulse purchase.
It was at the checkout in the supermarkets and so forth.
So she went in and she didn't explain specifically anything that was what the marketing leader said.
What I heard, which was what he said specifically, was about the color scheme.
He said the color scheme should be red and yellow.
He said the price point is 97 cents.
He said, I want it on pack.
I want it to really be clear to the consumer what the price point is.
He also said the flavor name has to be something very key because I want them to know what they're purchasing, what the flavor is, and I want them to be able to readily find it.
These are all the things that I remember.
I was in the meeting with her when she went back to our team and we had a team of graphic designers and we had a team of production artists.
She kind of went back and just mentioned to them the top line.
We need a pack that's going to stand out at retail.
That's all she said to them.
And I said, well, we have a little more direction than just that.
And she said, well, they should figure that out.
And that was not fair to me in terms of thinking, well, we know the information.
Why aren't we just stating it rather than having a team spend time and invest resources and money to do something where they may not hit the mark?
So that was a point where I just saw that she, in her head, she knew what they were looking for.
So then Christine, fast forward after they followed through with what her directives were, they missed the mark.

Christine Laperriere:
Of course they did.
They didn't know red and yellow.
They didn't know pricing.

James Vasquez:
Yep.
A hundred percent.
So their perception of what was the objectives based on what she gave them wasn't in fact what the marketing leader said.
So we wound up failing at that.
We had to go subsequent rounds and so forth.
So for me, I felt that, okay, communication is absolutely an abundantly important subject to be sure in a leader that you are.
Now, what is funny, Christine, with that same boss of mine, I did learn something positive in the communication realm.
So with her, she was poor at communicating verbally in person to people.
But remember, I told you she was brilliant.
She was very smart.
But on the other side of the coin, she was a masterful communicator with the written word.
She remembers she read a lot.
So she knew how to communicate effectively in emails and she used it as a CYA.
I don't know if you know what CYA is.
Can I say that for our listeners?

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, please.

James Vasquez:
So CYA is cover your ass.

Christine Laperriere:
Of course.
Yeah.
Okay.
Now I got you.
We all know what that is.

James Vasquez:
So what I've learned and keep in mind, I worked with her many, many years ago.
I was very young in my career.
So I learned this from her too, in that if somebody said they were going to do something, approve something or so forth, she never took their word for it.
She always wrote an email, you know, dear so-and-so, based on our conversation, you said you would have approvals on this date, blah, blah, blah.
And she would continue to go that way.
And she copied everybody on the email.
It wasn't just like that person's boss.
It was the entire, pretty much the entire company.
So I learned several things from that.
Number one, CYA is very important, especially in corporate America.
Number two, she was coming up in a company that was male dominated.
And she was a high level employee in this role.
So I understood why she was doing it, because it was so easy for others to point the finger.
And again, it was a male dominated old boys club, you know, it was an older company.
So I saw how she was doing this.
She was a trailblazer.
And I really respected her for that because I saw how she was able to effectively communicate.
Her boss, which was my boss boss, loved her because he didn't have to do anything to get her where he wanted her to be.
It was less work for him.
So he was cool with it.
But I learned that you have to effectively communicate and make sure that you're hitting the targets that you're looking to achieve.
So that was a positive thing that I've learned with her.
And when I define our three topics that I mentioned that I feel make a good leader, I also feel that you can learn positively and negatively from that.
So that was a positive thing from her.
One other thing that I would like to point out that I've learned from her was, again, her ineffectiveness of her communicating with staff was also a result of managing her stress levels.
Now, you and I know people handle stress in many different ways.
And I'm not here to say that I'm an excellent manager of stress.
I'm just saying I know that there are so many ways to manage it.
And I think we could agree certain ways that probably aren't productive.
And she chose that route.
For example, we would come out of a major meeting with the top level directors.
And maybe it was announcing a new product.
Maybe it was doing something that required a short amount of time.
And they wanted it to be done completely in a vacuum time frame that is maybe a little unachievable.
But nonetheless, it's your job.
We got to get it done.
She would come out of that meeting, get the staff together and literally yell at them.
I'm talking like a yell as if you're reprimanding a child and saying, you better do this.
You're talking to grown professionals in an industry that this is what they were hired for.
And she treated, yeah, she beat them up literally.
And then this was the best part.
Then she would turn to me and say, okay, let's go to lunch.
What do you feel like for lunch?
And I looked at her like, you're bipolar.

Christine Laperriere:
I mean, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Actually, you know, I'm just going to kind of pause there for a second.
So as soon as you say you have somebody with an extraordinary amount of IQ, sounds like failing a bit on the EQ.
But what I like is you're sharing kind of the strengths and what you learn from the strengths and the weaknesses and what you learn.
It's interesting to me because it does raise that question of is it smart for employees to really understand how to see what the best attributes are of this boss and to forgive a little bit of the not best, right?
Because sometimes we put people on a pedestal that they can't ever reach.

James Vasquez:
So, you know, your point is extremely well taken.
And for me, this was a constant conversation that other employees would have with me.
They always would come to me and like, James, how do you manage her so well?
How come she never lashes out at you?
All these things that would come to me.
And then they were like, I was the golden child, which I was yelled at a few times, but I would let her know that it was unacceptable.
And I would take her aside.
I never did it in public.
I would ask to speak to her in her office.
And I would throw back at her and say, you know, I just want to let you know, I fully understand the goals that you need me to achieve.
However, I don't appreciate the way you delivered them.
And maybe that wasn't your intent, but I want to let you know the way it was received and the way you did it in public may have not been the best choice for me.
And I'm just letting you know, because you may or not see it that way.
So I had a lot of conversations to kind of let her know, I'm not going to take that.
And the other thing that to your point, I've done that with other people, not just my boss, but colleagues of mine, I would learn what makes them tick.
Why do they respond a certain way?
You know, the old adage, oh, everybody's motivated by money.
That's not true.
That's not true at all.
You know, there are many reasons why people do tasks.
There are many reasons why people don't want to do tasks.
So for me, I do learn a lot about person, the people, the team, the clients I'm working with, because all of that, it plays such a key role.
Like I said earlier, we're all humans until AI takes over the world.

Christine Laperriere:
Right now we're still all humans.

James Vasquez:
Yeah.
And that's really the important thing that I take away from her all the time.
I always remember.
And with that situation about the staff meetings, I've had companies where I've had multiple people on my staff and I've been put in very stressful situations.
And I've learned to take a breath, recompose myself before I speak to anybody.
And then I would gather the team together, let them know what the subject was about and explain to them what it was.
And I would side with them saying, okay, I know that what we're being asked is maybe something that's going to be very tough to deliver, but I'm here to help you in any way can, but we need to be able to put forth our best effort and achieve the challenges.
So it's definitely something that I've learned.
And I would have conversations with her, Christine, where I used to tell her, you need to see a therapist.
And she would laugh at me.
She'd be like, oh, you're so funny.
I said, no, I'm being serious.
And then she would say to me, why do I need a therapist?
I have you.
And she would talk to me.
I was like, I'm not a professional.
Yeah, we could talk and we could share information.
But I said, there's things that you need to work on.
And I'm happy to say that when I did speak with her, and when I did explain how maybe she didn't see it through the lens of the people receiving it, she was softer at times, not always, but it did impact her in a way.
So we had a really good collaboration.
I mean, in terms of that development of that company, we really escalated it.
It was the best run department.
Fantastic.
So she actually wound up leaving the company for a lot of different reasons.
We were being taken over to the public and so forth.
So I wound up running the entire division my own, which was to the relief of so many people only because they know how she was so hard.
But I'll tell you, Christine, as much as I'm not going to be that person that yells at you, I get what I want because I'm very direct and I like to be able to work with people who are competent.
And I made sure I worked with the people that weren't the ones that weren't.
I let go.
And that's how I've been in my career.
That's how I am today with my companies.
And so one of the other bosses that I can share with you at that same company.
And this is something where this this gentleman was well, like throughout the organization, he rapidly accelerated through the ranks through his his merit because he was an achiever.
He went to bad.
He was not one of these person that would say that's not my job.
He did whatever it took.
And I respected him because he would understand if I needed his review or approval on something by a certain date and time.
He would ask me, he said, James, I can't get to until tomorrow.
Is that OK?
What time tomorrow can I give you to approve that so you can get what you need done?
He understood the big picture.
And that was something in a small nugget I took away where today I still do this, where I tell people I need this back by this day, this time, because of him.
Because I think people don't realize that that you think you know when you need it back by, you know, in order to take that next step.
Right.
But you don't tell people if you don't tell people they don't know.
So I make them aware of it.
They may not need to understand the entire process, but at least if you explain I need this back by this time, this day, you gave them the time and date so they could be held accountable.
And again, if you're dealing with the right professional.
So now this is the biggest thing that in terms of remember I outlined in terms of being a leader.
One of the top things that I say is fairness and integrity.
Now this is an example of extreme integrity.
So one of the clients that we had as a business to this company is this small company, you might have heard of them, they're called Walmart.

Christine Laperriere:
Yes, so probably an important customer.

James Vasquez:
Yeah, in any business today, Walmart, no matter who you are, is still a very large company to anybody.
And this company was no different.
Any order from Walmart was a minimum of a million dollars.
Not even kidding.
If they call, everybody would run and do whatever it took.
So we had this opportunity with Walmart to put in our product in a display tray.
And it was going to be what's called an end cap.
And for people who don't know an end cap is when you're walking up and down the aisles, you have your product displayed and is very prominently displayed.
It's usually pushed with a lot of marketing and advertising.
So we had this opportunity.
So for us, we were able to create the artwork in-house, manufacture it, we manufacture it in the states.
So it was easy for us to do.
So we were able to do this.
But throughout that process, there's a lot of approvals that were needed.
And my boss was one of the final stops and he approved the price point of 49 cents for the product, which was to be prominently printed on the tray because it was this promotion, an in and out promotion, meaning it was going to drop for the store.
It's going to be in for a very short time and come out.
But it was like a million dollar order.
So that price was a retail price, 49 cents.
So it went to market, printed, it was displayed.
And then all of a sudden, we got all these phone calls.
And my boss came up to me.
He's like, James, he's like, who approved the 49 cents price point?
And I said, well, you did.
And then it went through other channels.
And then he said, can you pull the job jacket so I could see the history?
So I did.
And we went through every department, legal, everything.
And it was even on the materials that you have to follow to be able to produce the item, everything.
And it was on there.
And it was wrong price point.
It was supposed to be 88 cents.
So you're looking, yes, at 50% off of the retail margin.
So the CEO is obviously completely involved in this looking to find out who approved this.
So he said, my name's on this.
So I'm going to say, I approve this.
And he literally took all the blame, despite there being like 12 other people that could have caught it, that should have caught it.
He didn't care.
He said, it's under me.
I'm going to tell him that I approved it.
And he did.
He knew that he could lose his job.
And it was over a million dollar order.
And he went to the CEO, and he talked to them.
And he expressed to them that this was something that I approved.
And he took the fall for it, took the blame for it.
The company lost a lot of money.
And he was just, for me, that show, the highest form of integrity is stood by me forever, even till this day.
And I just remember he was shocked because he was, I can't believe I approved it too.
But at the end of the day, he took the fall.
And he said, I'm just doing what's right, because I don't want anyone else to lose their job.
He said, if I lose my job, I'll deal with it.
He didn't lose his job.
About a year later, he was actually promoted.
And I think a lot of it had to do with his integrity and his well-being within the company.
But for me, Christine, when you talk about best bosses, I don't know of another characteristic that would really shine more than that.
Because in corporate America, a lot of times you're always looking out for your job, and you're always wondering about covering your ass.
And he did completely the opposite.

Christine Laperriere:
Because I coach about 100 professionals a year, I hear so many cover-your-ass stories and so many times when people are terrified of blame, and they're so scared of who's going to take the fall.
And I just think, why did we make the environment like that?
Because it is true that if a team plays a game, it's likely one person's going to drop the ball and it's going to suck.
But when do you just stand up for the fact that, yeah, I made a mistake?
I think that we haven't created cultures that permit you to make a mistake.
And I love that he just stood up for it.
And all of a sudden you have a culture that says, sometimes we mess up and we're not going to take it lightly, but we're also not going to say that it's a culture where you can't ever have a mess up.

James Vasquez:
Oh, you're 100% right, Christine.
And today, like I said, a lot of the times, like you, I do coaching and mentoring and so forth and establishing businesses.
And one of the things that I talk a lot about is mindset and also establishing your culture as to what you want your business to be.
Because at the end of the day, that resonated with me so much so throughout my career.
And I've taken stand for other people.
I've taken the responsibility.
I've lost money because of it.
But at the end, I felt so much better knowing that I was able to take the responsibility and be able to not point the finger like so many other people like to do.
So I think it's extremely important, just like you said, developing that culture and that acceptance to understand at the end of the day, we are all human and we have to understand that.
And you're going to have a bad day at times.
And sometimes a bad day, bad things happen.
The mistakes happen.
They're going to happen.
We just have to be able to learn from them.
And then there might be something in the system faltering when a mistake like that happens so that you can review where you have opportunities to be able to grow from it.

Christine Laperriere:
I have a thing when I'm working a lot of the times with leaders where I'll talk about if something big fails, let's look at the process and not the people.
Because at the end of the day, people don't go to work looking to mess up.
People don't go to work looking to lose a million dollars worth of profit on a product.
So it just tells me that if you actually take the energy off the people and you go, okay, let's look to the process.
What happened here?
How did eight people sign off on this?
So what was the process?
So you could even go back and go, okay, well, how were they able to know whether or not it was the right price when they got the information?
So you could look at that, but then take the onus off.
But because this person demonstrates that extreme integrity, there's a conversation that can be had about that.
If we're just going to shoot the that we blame and fire them and package them off they go, we don't set the culture up for analyzing a process.
We don't set the culture up for permission to make a mistake.
You know what I mean?
And now your cover your ass process has become where you spend 50% of your time.

James Vasquez:
You know what?
You're 100% right.
And then whatever that is, you'll find people taking more time to do things.
And they may not be doing it right, but they want to make sure that the process doesn't stop with them because they want to cover their ass and they want to make sure that they so they're you're 100% right.
And it was due to the process and the system.
So I'm happy the way he resolved it.
He went on to do great things.
He wound up becoming a really high profile person in the company.
Subsequently, he wound up leaving to start his own company.
So he did just wonderful things.
I'm still in touch with him at times and we share information.
I always remind him of that story.
He actually forgot about it.
So for me, I feel good when I share it with him and mention it to him and that it's stayed with me for a long time.

Christine Laperriere:
You know, what's cool about that is that's probably just him being him.
So he didn't think of it.
You know, he doesn't that's even probably a more of a testament to who he is because he didn't think of it as him being bold or courageous.
He was just being who he is.
And so you reminding him he's like, oh, yeah, yeah, I did.
You know, like for him, it was just another day at work doing the right thing.

James Vasquez:
You know, you know what, Kristy, you're 100% right.
That's how he was.
That's who he was.
So and it was it was very stressful.
The entire company is very stressed during that moment.
And those weeks leading up to that product launch, it actually wound up really becoming a success, to be honest with you also, where I guess it encouraged more consumer trial because of the lower price point, which obviously that was not the goal.
Having a new product in Wal-Mart at a price that was like almost a no brainer for the consumer to try, wound up to have sales skyrocketed.
Now, I don't remember if at this point, if we profited, I remember we lost a lot, but I don't know where it netted out in the long run.
But that that brand today is almost the number one selling brand at that company.

Christine Laperriere:
Interesting.
That's so cool.
Like I said, I love these stories.
So I know you also talked about empathy as one of your really important attributes of a leader.
Any interesting stories or tidbits where you were able to see that?

James Vasquez:
So for me, empathy, I actually hadn't had any bosses who really displayed the empathy that I talked about.
That actually comes more for myself, believe it or not.
I had a situation where I was in charge.
I was at a different company, but I had people report directly to me and I was responsible.
And I had this one new hire came on the job, like the top guy, like you wanted this person to be on your team.
And that's how he sold himself.
That's how he presented himself.
So I was anxious and excited to have him.
And then for whatever reason, within the first couple of weeks, that flame kind of fizzled out.
And I was like, yeah, I don't know what's going on with this guy.
And then I noticed that in our meetings, he was falling asleep.
I was like, what's going on?
Like his head would just literally bob.
And I had noticed he was very disengaged.
And for me, I was like, all right, this guy's got to go.
I've got to cut him loose.
And then I gave him one chance.
I told him, I said, listen, just want to let you know, I've been noticing and I told them what I just shared with you.
He didn't make any excuses.
He said, I promise I'll be fine.
I'll be better.
It's okay.
Didn't tell me anything.
So then a week goes by the same behaviors.
So I pulled them aside and I said, listen, I have to get HR in on this now, because we talked about this.
I documented this what's going on.
So finally, he discloses to me that he's going some medical situation, which he should have said in the first place, but he didn't.
He was trying to protect it and just didn't want anyone to know.
And I explained to him that privacy is the most concern of mine.
I would never ever let anyone know that.
But he kind of confided in me.
So for me, I had to now have these emotions where, okay, he's not really doing his job.
That's the bad part about it.
But I had to understand his viewpoint or what he's going through because it's directly impacting his ability to perform.
So for me, I gave him the day off.
I said, don't worry, we'll pay for the day.
Just go home, regain your thoughts and so forth and come back.
So with that, he came back the next day refreshed.
He was taking some meds that were causing him sleepiness and drowsiness.
So he stopped that.
He got some other description.
He came to me and thanked me for just understanding.
So for me, when I say about empathy, I had never had a boss do that.
So for me, I've always been like, oh, go forward.
Even if you have a bad night's sleep, you should go to work and you should perform.
That's what you're expected.
But I've learned through the years that you do need to be able to empathize with people.
You need to be able to understand where they're coming from, because at the end, you want that to be given to you also.
So for me, that's something that is very important in everything I do today.

Christine Laperriere:
I love that.
And it's a great story and a great example because I wonder sometimes is empathy one of those skills that is acquired through experience?
When I'm working with leaders, especially older leaders, it becomes easier because they have had a life experience where they were hoping somebody would be empathetic with them.
I'll work with people, pre-kids and post-kids, two totally different levels of empathy.
And I'll take one, I'll step right out and admit this.
Before I had kids, it was like, why do I have to do somebody else's job just because they have kids?
Why do I have to, why does so-and-so get to come in at 930 and I got to be out of bed at seven, like all those things.
Now I have two kids and it's like, oh gosh, just somebody throwing me a bone once in a while really can make my day because it's not that I'm not doing my best.
It's just that there's simply not enough of me to do everything perfect all the time.

James Vasquez:
Doesn't that feel amazing?
Because you're 100% right.
Before I had kids, I would be like, how come I'm doing all this work and they come in at 930, 10 o'clock, and I would be the same way.
And then I have three kids and then I started becoming the person that was having to come in at 930 or having to stay late because I just didn't have the energy and the wherewithal.
So for now, I have a lot of empathy for any working parent doing anything with children and any age.
Everybody says younger kids, any age is a challenge for parents, especially today with everything that's going on in the world today.
I feel that you really need to have that empathy.
And it's funny because I've had, I guess, a mix of clientele that have no empathy at the older ages and younger empathy because I have some that are just steadfast and say this is how it should be.
And they're having this utopia that maybe they should be a certain way and the younger generation needs to get with it.
And then I have others like you mentioned where they're more understanding and they've had help in the past.
So they want to do that for others.
So it's just an interesting dichotomy sometimes.

Christine Laperriere:
It's funny when you're talking about that.
I'm just going to share my really quick story on extreme empathy.
I have a client out of Halifax, great, great, great leader.
And about eight years ago, oh, maybe almost 10 now, I had a concussion.
I had an accident and ended up with this very serious concussion.
And so it was very interesting because I have one client, again, very large courier company client.
And I said, I'm really struggling with this concussion.
And that leader said, listen, I'm in Germany.
I need you to meet me at 430 or 5 a.m.
I was meeting him at 5 a.m.
And I'll never forget this.
I got on the call with him.
And there was something wrong with the formatting of the slide deck that I sent him.
And he just proceeded to chew me out for the slide deck.
And I'm working with a concussion and I'm getting out of bed at 5 a.m.
for this meeting.
And I just got off the line and I was destroyed.
But in the same exact breath, the CEO of another company that I work with, I said, I just had this concussion.
And he said, I want you to invoice me right now.
I don't want you to lose a moment of sleep over cash flow.
And you know what, Christine, we just want you to get better when you're ready to come back and do stuff for us.
We'll make it all work in the long run.
But I don't want you to stop invoicing me.

James Vasquez:
That's incredible.

Christine Laperriere:
I will never forget that.
It was like these two extremes.
And I like to this day, I mean, I've even featured people that work for him on the best boss show because I know he's a boss, you know, and it's so special to think that, you know, he had that impact of extreme empathy to the point where I can't forget him.
I cannot forget working for him because he was just phenomenal for that.

James Vasquez:
Well, one other thing that he displays and I don't know the gentleman, but what you're sharing with me makes me believe another quality that a lot of great leaders should have and do have at times is what you're expressing here is gratitude.
You know, he's giving you this gratitude that he doesn't want you to lose any money.
He doesn't want you wants you to get well.
And I think that is tremendous because a lot of times people do forget to have that and to display that.
And I think that is just such a great story.
Thanks so much for sharing that because that was wonderful.

Christine Laperriere:
You know, you had all those great stories for your other attributes.
And I'm like, I happen to know somebody who has your extreme empathy nailed, you know, and you're right.
And I went on to refer great people into that business.
You know, I've done anything for him that I can because, you know, that's what's so neat when you work for people who display some of these qualities is like the golden path that follows them.
Right.
That simple moment.
He just said, hey, listen, you know, send me your invoice right now.
I'm going to pay it literally, you know, eight years of loyalty out of me.
That's like, you know, bar none.
If he calls and says I need something, it's jump how high, you know, that's great.

James Vasquez:
Absolutely.
Of course.

Christine Laperriere:
And similar to some of these other people, right?
Where this extraordinary integrity, right?
Like you would, you know, if that person calls you and asks you for something, it's like, how high do you need me to jump?

James Vasquez:
That's the reciprocation.
You're 100% right.
And that's what you get from those experiences.
And there's, you know, conversely, there's others that you're like, oh, I don't want to take this call.
Send that to voicemail.
But you are right.
We have the ones where you have this fantastic experience.
They show the human side of things where, you know, they experience things and want to take care of you and they respected you.
So I think that's wonderful.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
Very cool.
Well, listen, this has been an incredible conversation.
I have obviously a ton of questions, but we're just running out of time.
The last one I'm going to ask you though, and I love to ask people this question.
I think you gave us so much good meat today.
What do you think the financial impact is of working for a best boss?
Because this comes up for me and my business all day long, right?
Why would we spend money on supporting people to become a best boss?
And so what do you think it is?

James Vasquez:
You know, that's a great question.
I don't know the specific statistics and I'm sure they're with respect to you could have a measurable result from having a best boss versus not.
I will let you know from my experience from when that experience that I have from that boss who wasn't the best boss, but she got things done after she left the company.
Now, there were a lot of things that did happen, but I was the person in charge.
I essentially took over her role and a couple of other roles just kind of ran things and I ran things very differently than she did.
And I have people literally write to HR, write to the CEO about how I treat them with respect.
I work with them.
I'm able to roll up my sleeves because that other boss, she didn't do any of that.
She just made everyone else do the work and just kind of took all the credit.
So I believe that from a financial standpoint, you could have a direct measurable positive result in providing the resources when you do have somebody who is a best boss to continue that, to make sure that that's something that you invest with them to kind of embrace it, to increase how they could become even better and really utilize that.
I've seen in my own businesses the way I've treat people a positive manner.
They want to do more work.
They want to be doing things.
They ask for more responsibilities.
They don't mind working later if they have to.
I just see a positive overall culture like we were talking about, and I just see that they are more willing and able to do things.
And that brings more clients.
In my type of business, it actually helps where people want to work with that type of outlook and that type of person.
So for me, I believe there's a direct positive financial aspect in an outlook with a best boss that way.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
No, I think it's absolutely the truth.
And even just when we got on the phone and you mentioned how amazing Grace is, it's like I've been so lucky to retain and work with her for so many years.
And she is.
You can't help but love her.
She's just got that gift.
So I always am on a mission to try to keep her happy because it's such a good example, though, of where you get to hold on to somebody who cares, cares about the business.

James Vasquez:
Exactly.
They're doing it for other reasons than financial gain.
They care.
They won't want to be a part of it.
They understand the mission, and they just want to be able to make a difference.
So yeah, Grace is a keeper.
She's awesome.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
Thank you, James.
This was a fantastic interview, and I know people are going to get a lot from this conversation.
Thank you so much.

James Vasquez:
Christine, thank you so much for having me.
I've enjoyed our conversation as well.
And if anybody gets one nugget of information that they could take with them the way I've taken from my bosses, I would be so happy.

Christine Laperriere:
If you want to hear more, join me at christinlaperrier.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 48
Title: Give to the universe and it gives back
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Joshua Elrich

Christine Laperriere:
Today, I am bringing on Joshua, and I'm going to have Joshua introduce himself in a minute.
But yet again, what I really love is that as we have started to grow a stronger presence with The Best Boss Show, there are people that are listening to the show and catching the idea of it, and it's inspiring them to think about what their best bosses are.
And that's how Joshua and I got connected.
So, Josh, thank you so much for being on the show.
I'll hand it over to you so you can do a quick introduction, and then we'll get started.

Joshua Elrich:
Thank you, Christine.
Yeah, I'm excited to talk about this.
I went down a trip of memory lane thinking about best bosses, so I'll share some stories.
I've been a leadership coach for the last 25, 26 years, psychologist by training before that, researcher.
And most of what I do is leadership coaching, and I love that work.
And when I'm not doing that, I'm teaching mindfulness and mindful leadership.
And so I get to do stuff that I love and help people grow and change.
So that's a joyful thing.
But I didn't get there kind of on my own.
There was people, best bosses, and mentors, maybe we'll get to, that really helped me develop the professional confidence and skill set that I have.
So very grateful for them.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
So with that, I'm going to go ahead and dive in.
I'll give you the question.
Who are the best bosses, I'll say, that you've experienced and or learned something really transformational from?
The first one that came to mind is name is Jerry.
And it struck me from the very first meeting, my first interview, he created the safe space for me and showed this incredible interest in me.
And I ended up sharing so much more about myself, my personal life that I intended.
He opened me like a can opener.
He was a professional interviewer and that was his thing.
He was an assessor.
And that's what he ended up teaching me was how to assess leaders.
But I was not prepared for that.
And I just thought, oh, my gosh, what have I done?
I said, I'm never going to get this job.
And yet, sharing all this personal stuff about my own spiritual journey and starting to meditate and stuff.
Actually, he was very interested and thought that was great.
So I didn't flop.
He hired me and subsequently taught me to trust my intuition and my gut using that incredible, supportive, essentially loving stance that he had.
I didn't think of it at the time, but as I think back on it now, that's really what he was expressing.

Christine Laperriere:
He was able to express that kind of loving presence for you.
I love the fact that you mentioned he was a professional interviewer.
So it's like he was able to ask the questions that really got to the heart of who you are.

Joshua Elrich:
So it was the questions and even not even just the question.
It was just that he would listen.
He was a really good listener.
And as I started thinking and I always think about principles, what are the themes, empathy, and listening are top of my list?
Because that showed his support for me and interest in me.
It wasn't just, OK, I'm going to tell you and teach you because he had years that he could give me.
But what I really took away was his belief in me.
That started with the next, the biggest assignment we started with is he asked me to research the best assessment tools out there.
He had been using the same tools for like 10, 15 years and they were old.
I mean, he loved them and they were like his magic crystal ball.
But he wanted me to go find him the new things.
And I just thought, this is wild.
And I dove into it, brought them to him.
He was very open to experimenting with them.
And I ended up teaching him hypnosis.
I mean, he's just so open.
Even though he had years of experience and great skills, he was open to learning from me.
So what I took away was I must have something.
I was this graduate student.
I knew nothing and felt I had no kind of things to add.
And he showed me that I had tremendous things to add.
And that, to my confidence, just blossomed.
My professional identity blossomed.
So that's really what I got from him.
Wow.
I love that.
Love that story.
So that was Jerry.
So then kind of as you start thinking, what other bosses created that impact for you?
Well, the same one actually going further back into college, research named Christy, she was teaching me how to do research.
I'd never done research and how to publish that research.
But as I think about it, it was the same incredible sense of loving support that I got from her.
It was just this sense of interest in me, but also I could mess up.
But there was a sense of it's okay.
Compassion might be the word.
And so just thinking about that, it really brings tears to my eyes how much there was this holding for me.
And so Christy and Jerry both gave me that.
And then, interesting.
So Jerry was looking for a successor.
And it was kind of one of the few good examples of succession planning.
He actually retired and I took over his seat in that consulting practice doing leadership assessment.
And what I then had was a new boss, essentially his partner at the time.
I'll call him Rich for sake of anonymity, but very different kind of boss, but incredibly transformative for me.
So not this kind of sweet loving presence.
And so I learned from him how to coach by coaching side by side with him.
So this was not like, okay, we debrief it later.
Well, we did debrief, but we would coach people together.
And so I'd go to visit clients with him.
And that was just incredible because he was right to not send me alone.
And watching him do it.
So there's modeling there, how to coach people, how to build relationships with clients, how to run a business.
He knew that much better than Jerry did.
And the other thing that I was thinking about, Christine, was so amazing.
And I wrote about this actually when I wrote my book years ago.
He would interrupt himself to listen to me.
So we'd be talking and I would take in a breath of air as if I'm going to speak.
And he would interrupt him, he would stop.
And I feel bad because I actually wanted to hear what he was going to say.
And I had no experience, there's nothing important that I was going to say.
And I asked him to explain this.
And he said, well, when I'm speaking, I'm not learning.
And it was just so powerful to me.
Like, yes, he too wanted to learn.
Even if it wasn't important, what he taught me was, wow, I should shut up and listen better.
So that was Richard.
And really learned again about business and building relationships with clients and also about listening in a different way.

Christine Laperriere:
Can I get you to even expand a little bit about what it was like to sit next to him as he was coaching?
So obviously, you didn't really know a lot about coaching at that moment in time.
And so you're sitting and you're observing him.
Tell me, like, what did he do well as a coach?
Like, what were the things that you started to pick up on?
You know, all of us want to learn how to be great coaches.

Joshua Elrich:
You know, and again, I'd start with that listening.
He was a great listener, even though he was impatient and had ADD.
He actually reminded me, he took a pad of paper with him.
And whenever he's on the phone or with a client person, he would be doodling.
He learned that to quiet his mind and to focus.
And he would write notes about what the person was saying, but he'd also draw pictures and stuff.
He would use that to help him focus.
And so, you know, as much as he had incredible expertise and could do the mentoring and telling thing, he didn't.
And so what I learned from him was how to really help people from the inside out bring their insights forward and not be the guru in the room.
But somebody else really get to where they wanted to go.
So that was good.
The other thing that I realized that I learned from him, he had this expression he would say, when I give to the universe, it gives back.

Christine Laperriere:
I love that one.

Joshua Elrich:
He's a really hard-nosed business person.
But he had this philosophy of giving and that it wasn't just about, okay, go, go, take, take, you know.
It was about giving to clients.
And when you give, you get back.
Giving things away for free was his philosophy.
And what I learned, how does he build a relationship with clients?
He gave his time, his attention, his expertise for free.
And he built a very successful business.

Christine Laperriere:
I love that catchphrase.
I feel like it's a hard one to remember sometimes when you're in the business world.
So when you bring that one forward, you just relax a little bit, you know.

Joshua Elrich:
It's hard to trust it, but it is true.
And I've tried to live that, you know.
Just being there for people when they're between jobs or have gotten fired or going through a tough moment and they can't pay us as consultants.
But they need support and it's a relationship.
It's not a transaction.
That's something I learned from him and from Jerry and Christy too.
So that's, yeah.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
I really, really like that story.
You know, I know that we were talking as we were getting the show set up.
One of the things that this Best Boss Ever conversation also brings up for you is some memories about the not best boss.
The one that wouldn't win the title.

Joshua Elrich:
Yeah.
And you know, I think it's about ego because that boss was always competing with me to try to make himself feel good, to put himself up.
And one time, I'll never forget, I actually introduced him to a client of mine a group of clients that came to the meeting.
And he was putting me down in front of my own clients and I was just like, I could not believe what I was hearing.
And so, you know, when somebody's ego is more important than the client or me, it's just, it's incredible what that will do in terms of destructiveness.
And so, you know, I left that relationship and, you know, that was really why.
Because I didn't want to have a boss competing with me.
It's the opposite of what I was talking about before with Jerry and Christian and Rich, where they really were kind of putting me up and showing me that my expertise mattered.
And it wasn't about that.
They didn't need the ego.
They had kind of managed to develop their own confidence to that point that they didn't have to compete.
But this other fellow, you know, wasn't there.
So he was competing and I didn't learn from that.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah.

Joshua Elrich:
And when you feel like, I think psychological safety is a big, you know, hot topic these days, but the minute that you think, you know, you're kind of going into the office and all of a sudden, like, you're competing with somebody sitting right next to you or sitting above you, you know, there's nothing psychologically safe about that.
And if I make the transfer to people that I've managed, and I haven't managed that many, but when I'm developing somebody, I'm trying to do that.
It's basically getting my own ego out of the way.
If it's my emotional need, if I'm critiquing something they've written or done, you know, is it my need to show that I'm better?
What's going on here?

Christine Laperriere:
So, can I ask you a question?
I personally have done an intense amount of training.
Kabbalah was probably the best training that I did in helping me really identify the difference between ego and connection to something bigger.
But I'm very mindful of, just like you said, where my ego sits sometimes when I'm interacting, because you're right, the minute I can move that out of the way goes back to being about the person in front of me, right?
You know, for all of us, it rears its ugly head.
So, question for you, how did you, you know, how have you grown to spot and manage ego in yourself and others, you know, in your journey?

Joshua Elrich:
I think that's a core of what we're trying to do when we're coaching leaders is help them manage their ego and manage their emotional needs.
One thing that we do a lot in coaching is giving feedback, right?
So, gathering 360 feedback and helping people be aware of their impact.
That's one place it comes out that they care about my clients.
They don't want to impact people negatively around them.
And so, they pay attention to that disconnect between intention and impact.
So, that's outside in.
Inside out is being aware, and you mentioned mindful.
So, mindfulness is a huge tool for me in helping myself and others be first, sane, and centered, and grounded.
Right, so first thing is if I'm stressed out, you know, if I greet the kids at the door of my wife, I'm not giving them my best self.
If I'm harried and fallow, I've got to spend a lot of time managing my own anxiety and stress so that I'm my best self.
So, that's the first grounded, centered, settled.
Number two is then, can I make the intention to give and care and ask about how am I, you know, how am I entering this conversation?
Is it with curiosity and empathy and listening, or is it with an agenda to fix or get off my chest of frustration?
What's going on for me emotionally?
So, that's a mindfulness of emotion.
So, we often think of mindfulness as a mind thing, but it's not just being clear in our heads.
It's being positive and centered in our hearts.
So, heartfulness is in some ways a better word for it.

Christine Laperriere:
I think that's a really good distinction, right?
Moving the energy down here versus always up here, you know?

Joshua Elrich:
Great teacher who passed away last year, Thich Nhat Hanh, used to talk about the longest journey is that many miles from our head to our heart.

Christine Laperriere:
Absolutely.

Joshua Elrich:
This sounds so soft, right?
So, our clients, Christina, hearted, practical people are like, oh, you know, heart, love, what are you talking about?
Actually, and you mentioned psychological safety.
The reason that's coming in is because we've over-shifted, too much logic and head in business and, oh, we don't have room for emotion.
And now we're realizing emotional intelligence and safety.
Well, where do we get that?
We get that working on our own ability to be understanding and empathic and compassionate.
And those are things that can be learned.

Christine Laperriere:
Well, and I think, you know, to your point, the leaders that I work with want that.
I think a lot of people feel that their authenticity is kind of cut off right at the end of their executive function.
So, it's like, as long as I'm in, you know, using the logical part of my brain and I'm powering through problem solving, they feel like that's what the company wants out of them.
And then the minute that they move into an emotional state, they're kind of like, you know, that's not welcome here.
And what I've actually learned is culture is not built on executive function alone, right?
It's built on the human connection.
And, you know, we talk about engagement, right?
Like Gallup's, you know, one of Gallup's questions, I have a best friend at work, you know, and I always say that.
And that one actually is, interestingly enough, one of the biggest predictors of whether somebody is going to stay at an organization.
That's not, you know, executive function, right?
That's not ego.

Joshua Elrich:
And I've been thinking a lot about executive function recently.
And just if people don't know that term, that's planning, organizing, focusing.
And kids most need coming up and executives need it too.
And that's what, you know, mindfulness gives us.
And yet it's not the whole enchilada.
As you say, Christine, it's half at best.
And culture is built on emotional and safety and underlying values.
So absolutely.
You know, you also want to come back to mentors, Christine, because you mentioned mentors.
And I was thinking about best bosses.
And then I thought of somebody who wasn't really a boss.
But was incredibly pivotal for me as a mentor.
And if I think about that, there's some similarity to what I got in that sense of loving support.
But she was also tough and would not hold back.
So you mentioned head and heart, you know, I think it's a balance.
She would give me blistering feedback and not, you know, no love in that moment.
It felt hard and harsh.
But I needed to hear it.
And so I learned that part of things too, that it's not all about the warm and fuzzy.
It's how do you really be straight?
And there's some people who talk about straight talk and, you know, that kind of discipline, being brutally honest.
But it's within the context of a loving, supportive relationship where, you know, it's not about, again, I'm going to take you down because I feel like it or I can with the idea that I'm going to help you grow.

Christine Laperriere:
You know, I have this nickname for exactly what you're talking about.
And I call it the broccoli between your teeth conversation because, you know, what I've learned from doing over 50 of these best boss interviews, feedback always comes up as a topic, right?
And whether that's from a mentor or a boss or somebody that cares.
But what I always say is the broccoli between your teeth feedback is like, hey, you have broccoli between your teeth, like stop what you're doing, you know?
And I'm doing that not because I have ego or I enjoy that you look like a fool right now or I enjoy that everybody, you know, I'm doing that out of sheer compassion for you.
But if I don't give, you know, I'm not going to say like, excuse me, well, you know, and sometimes like, you know, it's like I don't, I'm not worried about your feelings in the moment because I'm actually protecting the bigger you and your success.
And so I think of it as like, how do we give feedback that just like you said, I hear this all the time, people that make a big impact, it's not the ones that gently gave feedback that, you know, didn't disrupt the apple cart or didn't have you, you know, you had no, you know, you didn't have a feeling when you heard that feedback.
Most of us, when we get that tough feedback, it's like, ouch, but then you get so much from that.

Joshua Elrich:
Right.
And so some of the things you're saying is important, you know, because people hear coaching and they think feedback.
And yes, feedback is part of coaching, but it's a small part.
The larger enchilada is do we create a safe space for this person to grow and think for themselves?
And then when we give feedback, it's in a container and that feedback, right, does not protect that person from their feelings.
I actually learned that from another mentor we could talk about.
But that's so pivotal.
We so often do each other harm by trying to protect each other from our feelings.
Can't protect each other from our feelings.
And the best way we can sometimes help people is to be straight, but with that sense of support for the person.
It's not brutal for the sake of hurting or being brutal.
Just because I can't think of a better way to say it.
It's with the gesture and the intention to help.

Christine Laperriere:
I really value when I hear those stories.
I can think of a time that I got tough feedback from a mentor, same exact thing.
And she said, while I was watching you facilitate in front of a room, she goes, you know your stuff, but you use self-deprecating humor to the point in which it's annoying.
And I was like, oh, but she was right.
I was on this mission to try to not look too egotistical in front of the room.
And so I was like treating myself like I was stupid in front of the room.
And she's like, there's no need for that.
And it was like, I mean, I felt like I had, I was embarrassed by the, you know, the tough moment, but I will never forget how thankful I am.
She could have saved me years of doing something that nobody else would ever had the heart to tell me.

Joshua Elrich:
It's a great story.
So if we are really open and want feedback, how do we get it?
Right.
She had a sense that she could give it to you, but so many people project that they're not interested.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Joshua Elrich:
You know, even before you say anything, you can see the defense in this coming up.
So showing that you're open and interested, the easiest way is to ask people for feedback, ask colleagues for feedback.
You know, there's coaches who made their living on that principle, just ask for feedback.
And it's really powerful.
And the first time yet, you know, I'll never forget when I was writing my book, the first time I had a developmental editor, his job was to give me feedback.
I thought, oh, he's going to give me, so I asked him for feedback and he said, oh, just keep doing what you're doing.
I said, okay, great.
I'll do that.
But I asked him for feedback again a month later.
And he said, yeah, you could change this a little bit here and there.
I was like, oh, great.
Thank you so much.
And I asked him for feedback a third time and a month again after that.
And he said, you know what?
You really need more stories.
You need to put more stories throughout the book.
And I was like, oh my gosh, this is huge.
It's going to take me another six months to write.
But that's so important.
And it was, but I had to ask him and it was his job.
I had to ask him three times.

Christine Laperriere:
And think of even the time wasted, right?
By you not seeing that challenge or issue or opportunity earlier, right?
And so I agree with you.
It's hard to hear at the time, but honestly, it's the biggest gift.
And I hear that as a theme in almost over half of these interviews.
People remember the person that gave them the tough feedback that once they got their broccoli out from between their teeth, they were like, wow, the show's going so much better now, you know?
Like, and they felt more confident in front of the room because somebody did actually point out that embarrassing thing.
Even you probably felt better writing that book when you finally got that candid feedback.

Joshua Elrich:
Well, yeah, because it rung true.
It was painful because I'd written a lot to that point that I had to then rework.
And you see there was going to be a ton of work ahead in the next few chapters.
And it's not easy for me to write and tell stories, but you've been great to draw them out.
But, you know, so it was painful in the moment, but so helpful longer term, right?

Christine Laperriere:
Any last words that you want people to hear today?
I really appreciated your stories.
I love the examples of the couple different bosses that came to mind, even though they were all kind of, they had different ways that they impacted you.
Just tell me a little bit if there's anything you really want leaders that are listening right now who are trying to figure out how to keep raising the bar.
What do they need to take away today?

Joshua Elrich:
Well, we've talked about, and I'm about to write an article about this, that empathy is the supremacy principle.
Empathy and listening right behind it.
And then curiosity.
We talked about managing our egos and our emotional needs and talked about mindfulness, being present, paying attention, guiding your own attention and guiding the attention of your team.
Okay, I need to be focused.
But actually, as a leader, a huge part of our job is focusing the attention of our teams.
People talk about alignment and strategic direction, but what does that come down to?
That everybody's attention is focused in the same direction.
And you can do that if you get a hold of your own first, and you can pay attention to others.

Christine Laperriere:
I mean, I think your point on empathy and listening, I always take curiosity to me.
I kind of use it as like love in motion, because in the world of leadership, we don't use the word love very much.
It's like, we kind of almost in some ways don't have permission to go there.
But if I can challenge somebody to move to curiosity, like a genuine curiosity, if you think about it, when you've ever felt loved by another person, they were genuinely deeply curious.
So much that they wanted to listen to you.
So much that they wanted to understand you.

Joshua Elrich:
And a friend of mine recently was saying that he, he's a leader of 100 people, IT technology team.
He was saying, you know what?
That gets you to curiosity is humility, which gets us back to managing your ego.
So you can't just say, well, you should be humble.
But to be humble, we have to get our ego out of the way.
Once you can be humble, then you can be curious.

Christine Laperriere:
I love that.

Joshua Elrich:
And you know what?
I want to tell one more thing about Jerry, which I just thought was amazing.
I, he had retired at this point.
I was at a conference and we were asked to share around a large round table about the best mentor boss we'd ever had, going back to your podcast.
And this other person was sharing and it sounded, I was like, that sounds like Jerry.
So I went up to him in a break and I said, who was that boss you were talking about?
He said, oh yeah, it's Jerry.
I said, I was my best boss too.
And so we compared notes and rows.
So it wasn't just me that Jerry had supported.
And this other colleague had the same experience.

Christine Laperriere:
Oh, that is fantastic.
Like what a riot.
Like, what do you think of that?
That is so interesting.

Joshua Elrich:
And as I learned, he had mentored many other people as well.
So it was not personal and it was personal.
Felt like he was just a special thing for me.
But then I realized, wait, he's doing this.
He's sprinkling this pixie dust with others too.

Christine Laperriere:
Which is so cool.
And I mean, to me, that's where, if you're really authentically being who you're being, then any person that interacts with him is getting that experience.
So that's pretty cool that he impacted people that all knew him or were around him and being led by him in the same way.
To me, that's like the top of the bar.

Joshua Elrich:
Yeah.
How do you make people feel?
Monitoring leadership, right?
How do you make people think, feel, and act?
But the feeling piece is underrated to your point earlier.
So are we thinking about how we make people feel post our interactions with them?
And what I took away was I think about Jerry and Kristy and Rich and Karen mostly on the love side.
It's how they made me feel.
It made me feel good about myself.

Christine Laperriere:
I'm keeping that as my last little nugget of wisdom that I'm going to put this up on my wall here.
How do you make people think, feel, and act?
I think that you nailed it.
Those three are so mission critical, but the feel is always the one that everybody skips.
The think, we feel like we can talk our way into it.
Act, we can just tell people what to do.
But feel...

Joshua Elrich:
It doesn't work because we jump over the feel piece.
If we connect to make them feel good and align with us and that we have a vision where we want to take you and you're inspired to go there with me as a leader, then you'll act.
And especially today, right?
Maybe 40 years ago, different generation, people would more be dutiful.
Today's, you know, people coming up, they don't want to just do it because you tell them.
They want to do it because they're inspired and they feel like they want to do it.

Christine Laperriere:
Absolutely.
I think that is an awesome closing remark to make everybody reflect on how are we all, you know, making people think, feel, and act when we're interacting with them.
Amazing.
Thank you, Joshua.
This was a great interview and I really appreciate your time.

Joshua Elrich:
My pleasure.
Wonderful talking with you.

Christine Laperriere:
If you want to hear more, join me at christinelaperriere.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 49
Title: Willing to be a buffer
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Maureen Cawley

Christine Laperriere:
Today, I'm interviewing Maureen.
And again, I think this is so exciting when someone hears about the show.
We have been talking about the show all over the place on LinkedIn, and we've built some really great fellowship.
And Maureen heard about this show and it immediately inspired some thoughts for her on who her best boss was.
So Maureen, thank you so much for reaching out and offering to be interviewed.
And just for everybody listening, give us a little introduction on yourself before we get started.

Maureen Cawley:
Sure, so my name is Maureen Colley.
I am the Chief People Officer at a company called Sapa.
It's a direct-to-consumer company that sells luxury mattresses online.
It's a lot of fun.
We have an engineering and a marketing population.
We also have a large customer service population.
And we're the first people in the internet to do what we do.
So it's a great company to be part of.

Christine Laperriere:
Sounds good.
And so for anybody out there with back pain or a lousy sleep while they're listening to this, look Maureen up after.

Maureen Cawley:
That's right, Sapa.com.

Christine Laperriere:
When I ask that question, who's your best boss, ever, and why?
What comes to mind for you?

Maureen Cawley:
My best boss was my first boss.
And it jumps right out for me because I feel so lucky in my career to have started out with a best boss.
His name is Max Landsbaum, and he's sort of known for being a best boss.
He made his career.
He works in retail, and he kind of has two signature strengths.
One is that he can make almost any situation profitable.
And then the other is he's a tremendous developer of people.
So almost no matter who he works with, he can pull out of them whatever their strengths are and help them to be useful at their job.
So he was always great with people who were quirky or people who were different or people like me who didn't understand their job and might not have been doing so well right out of college.
And so that versatility in leadership is something that you see it valued more and more now, but he was sort of an early adopter of strength-finders, essentially.

Christine Laperriere:
What a one-two punch he has, the ability to make any situation profitable and a tremendous developer of people.
I listen to that and go, that's a very aspirational who I want to be when I grow up.

Maureen Cawley:
Could you imagine how lucky, too, to come out of college and start working with somebody like that?

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, tell me a little bit about what it was like.
Give me the day-by-day examples of what it's like to work with Max.
Here you are, this fresh out of university or college grad.
Don't know where the bathrooms are, right?

Maureen Cawley:
Right, and at Target, that's where I started my career was Target.
They have an executive, they call it an executive leadership program.
And so what basically that means is you come into a field retail position and you're responsible for running a team of people and a department.
So you're 22 years old, you have a team of 25 people and you're supposed to drive results through this team who has more work experience than you, more retail experience, knows the environment better.
It was a pretty hard job.
And for me, I wasn't very good at it.
I had never worked in retail before, I wasn't a very good delegator and I definitely didn't understand some of the key components of feedback.
Meaning if I had feedback for an employee on my team, I was looking for a reaction from them to make sure they understood the message, which is wrong.
I mean, you end up pushing just way too hard on people.
And so Max kind of, you were saying you have a puppy by your desk, you kind of treated me like a puppy, like very broke it down to basics.
I remember one time I had this shoe transition, Target was doing this major change to how they presented footwear.
Right.
And I took the instructions, looked at the number of hours that it was supposed to take to complete the transition and decided, okay, I guess that's what I have to do.
Myself.

Christine Laperriere:
Oh no.

Maureen Cawley:
I remember I had an 18 hour work day.
The project was due.
It was every shoes were all over the place, in boxes, out of boxes.
Somebody from the overnight team tried to help me, but it was so bad, like just a complete fail.
And I remember Max came in in the morning and said, okay, Maureen, we have to go look at the shoe department.
You know, like a puppy, you're just so embarrassed.
You know, you did a bad job.
And we walked over and he said, okay, well explain this.
Why don't you tell me what happened?
So instead of kind of taking that opportunity to like kind of scold me or yell at me or any of which I could have deserved, he gave me a chance to provide my own feedback.
And I said, okay, well, I failed to delegate.
I tried to do it all by myself.
I didn't know what I was doing and I didn't prepare in advance.
Now here's where we are.
So okay, well, what are you gonna do about it?
And I said, okay, I need your help.
What should I do about it?
Cause I really didn't know.
And at that point he came in, explained it to me, explained how to get myself out of the situation that I had created.
And then that was it, we moved on.
And so to have a leader who's kind of willing to have that level of patience and that level of, if his boss had walked in that day, he would have been in as much trouble as I was, but he was seasoning up in his career to let me make my own mistake and then learn from it and then do better going forward.

Christine Laperriere:
It's such a brilliant example.
You know, so many people talk about developing people and letting them fail and things like that.
But I just feel again, you know, to me the magic is what does that look like?
Because there's a lot of people that wouldn't have let you fail.
At 11 o'clock at night, he would have said, give it to me, I'm gonna do it myself.
You're not competent enough.

Maureen Cawley:
Right, and having a leader who's willing to sort of have skin in the game with you and give you the space to fail, knowing that they would share in that failure and they're built up enough in their own career that it doesn't scare them.
And I think that's what makes a good leader is having that willingness to say, I can be a buffer for my team, I can let them learn.
It's the insecure leaders who say, no, no, no, I have to micromanage your success because your success is a reflection of my success and I can't afford to have a mistake here.
Right, so I'm sure moving forward though, you had such a big learning from that experience.
What happened next?
I started, eventually I started getting good at my job.
So I went from kind of taking whatever was expected that I needed to do and sort of glossing over it and saying, okay, I kind of get it, I'm fumbling through to actually taking the time to sit down, read it, thoroughly understand it.
What I don't understand, ask a question, prepare in advance.
It's like they say in college, right?
If you read the syllabus, you'll be fine.
Starting my career, I wasn't doing a very good job of that.
Having that key lesson to slow down, don't read the instructions before you go forward, have a plan before you move.
That's a lesson that's stuck with me this whole time.

Christine Laperriere:
And it sounds like the ability to even ask the questions to get the right clarity and know what you don't know and know what you know.

Maureen Cawley:
It's a big thing.
You see that now, even as I grow in my career, the smartest leaders are the ones who are willing to raise their hand and say, hey, I don't understand what you just said.

Christine Laperriere:
And it's true that especially coming in new, it can be hard to have the courage to admit that.
So in this case, I mean, you went ahead and lived an example of it.
And then he gave you a chance to reflect back on that and go, okay, I'm not gonna do that again.
What other examples can you think of as you were working alongside him?
What were the things you really admired?

Maureen Cawley:
I think this wouldn't be surprising is that because of the way Max developed people, he had a huge network.
And so even now, like a couple of years ago, he reached out to me, he was working on something.
I brought him into a networking group that I was a part of.
And I'm one of dozens, if not hundreds of people who would see the phone ringing after years with his number on it and say, oh, hey, it's Max and have like a warm feeling.
And if he asked for something, anybody who's worked with them in the past would be more than happy to provide whatever it is, whether it's a quick question or a resource or a connection and he would do the same.
So that's, again, I think that comes from having a confidence in your own leadership and your own abilities so that it's easy for you to extend kind of whether it's, yeah, extend yourself, I guess, for other people, because you're not worried about what it would cost you.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
That is such an amazing type of relationship builder.
And it came up in a different show too, where, I always say like the ones who you feel kind of naturally indebted to, you never stop feeling indebted to them.
Like when they gave you so much, I can think of an example of a great leader that I worked with who was so kind when I went through this concussion.
And I was just saying eight years later, like if he calls, it's like, how high do you want me to jump?
He's just got years of deep loyalty for me.
So it's neat when you have that type of feeling for somebody.

Maureen Cawley:
I agree.
And I think that's what makes a best boss in a lot of cases is because what the expression people use, right, you'll run through walls for that person.
So when you have a leader who's building teams of people who really feel like they're doing great work and feel like their boss is there to support them, not to kind of climb over them, then the business itself, whatever business that is, will function better because people are just honest about doing their best work.
There's no politicizing.
There's no kind of zero sum game.
We all have a chance to do our best.
And then you have some vested interest in making your boss feel proud or happy with the work that you're doing.

Christine Laperriere:
And I think it's cool.
I mean, you'll run through walls.
And I'm thinking in the back of my head, you're still running through walls for him, which is a pretty cool treat.
It's not even just when you work for him.
It's like, that's what that network looks like.

Maureen Cawley:
Right, exactly.
And I love that too, to feed the network.
When you have strong leaders or best bosses in your network and you can help connect them, it helps you in the long run because then you become a builder yourself.

Christine Laperriere:
So out of curiosity, any other leaders that come to mind when you think of that example of best boss, anyone else that kind of caught you on that list?

Maureen Cawley:
I thought about it, I have sort of two.
So Max was my first boss.
He really set me up with a strong foundation.
And then there was a sort of what got you here, won't get you there moment in my career.
Several years ago, I had a boss, her name was Anna.
And I started to get feedback that I was doing a good job with execution, but I needed to be strategic.
I don't know if you've ever gotten that feedback before that you need to be strategic.
And then you say, well, what does that mean?
And you hear a whole bunch of jargon that you can't action on.
This woman, her name's Anna, she said to me, let me tell you what it means to be strategic.
You need to think six months ahead, that's it.
If you think six months ahead, I promise you will stop getting feedback that you need to be more strategic.
That has been worth its weight in gold.
And she was absolutely right.

Christine Laperriere:
It's a brilliant way to boil it down.
So I do a huge amount of coaching with female leaders and there's often exactly what you said, like mid-career, there's this moment where we're still waiting for permission to be invited to be the strategic thinker.
And if we don't start to demonstrate the strategic thinking, the world's not gonna look at us and say, hey, I could picture that person as a VP or a chief officer.
And so there's that moment where execution is what got us really strong accolades out of the gate, but then mid-career, it starts to stall out a little.
And so I love when I hear that because so many people go through that transition.
And to your point, they're not given anything useful that they can quickly grab onto.

Maureen Cawley:
Right, or give me an example of what you're looking for.
Help me understand.
And I'm lucky because I'm in HR, which lends itself to thinking six months ahead.
Because I remember the first time I had a chance to apply it, we were in the annual review cycle.
And so essentially all I had to do to start being strategic was start asking, oh, and what do you hope that this person accomplishes by the mid-year review?
Or by this time next year, how big do you think this department will be?
It's not even hard if you break it down into that think six months ahead timeframe.

Christine Laperriere:
I love it.
I actually think that's such a helpful tip for so many people that are listening right now who have probably been given similar feedback.

Maureen Cawley:
Yeah, it's a stumbling block for a lot of people.
And I think it's an easy piece of feedback to put to somebody.
It's like, oh, you need to be more strategic.
I can't lean on you as a strategic partner.
Okay, but what are you looking for?
And so I always think, okay, if we're trying to be strategic here, there's a tactical way to be strategic, which is take out the calendar and work backwards from your goals.
And that's called a strategy to get there.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, that is brilliant.
So that was Anna.
I think that sounds like, again, like a really game-changing piece of advice she gave you.

Maureen Cawley:
Totally game-changing.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
And what would you say in your experience have you learned from your not great leaders?
Like you don't have to name them, but like when you think of people that sometimes you see somebody do something and you go, I'm gonna make sure I never do that.

Maureen Cawley:
Yeah, I do a fair amount of yoga.
And in yoga they say, if there's somebody who is giving you a particularly hard time, you have to ask what they're there to teach you.
And so if you take that question, like I don't know that I've ever had like a bad boss or somebody that I would explain that way, but I've certainly had frustrations.
And so when I look back on those now, I think the biggest takeaway that I've gotten from those experiences was you have to stop working for your boss and start working for yourself and focus on your work and what you accomplish instead of working for the praise or the acceptance or the feedback from somebody else.
You have to let the work serve that purpose for you.

Christine Laperriere:
Again, I think that's a really big nugget because it is frustrating when we can't get the accolades from somebody.
And a lot of people do feel really stuck.
Like if they can't get the accolades, then what?

Maureen Cawley:
I mean, for me, at this point in my career, I work for my work and I like to, like my current job I'm building an HR department.
So it's very gratifying year over year to see the progress.
And I'm very fortunate because I have a great boss now and I have a great team that I work with.
But if I set that to the side, the thing that I really work for is my resume.
And I look at it as if I can make accomplishments and I can make my workplace better and I can make my department stronger, that just builds to my book of experience.
And it also is recognized by my leadership team, recognized by my boss, which I appreciate and I value, but I have to put that part second.
Like I have to work for the work and then let the recognition come instead of working to try to be recognized and then not stopping to sort of recognize myself what's being accomplished.
You know, only a bad boss can really teach you that.
Don't look here, look at what's in front of you.
Don't look to that person specifically.
Would you say in a way, the way you're thinking of it helps you stay authentic?
I don't know.
That's a good question.
I'm not sure.
It's just that interesting.
I think it is hard.

Christine Laperriere:
Well, that's, I guess what I'm thinking is like, you know, do you then, you know, are you now chasing something that you feel is important for the business?
It's important for what you think you're capable of.
And the accolades are just a second, you know, that's the icing on the cake.

Maureen Cawley:
Right, I guess that's right.
It's a different North star.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Maureen Cawley:
And I think it's a truer North than somebody else's feelings about you or your work.

Christine Laperriere:
I think that's a really good way of putting it because again, I do know, I coach people where they get that frustration, where they can't get that accolade from their boss and they can't get that feeling.
And they've had it before.
They've had recognition before.
So once you take away recognition, it starts to feel really disengaging.
It is hard to work with somebody that feels that way.
You know, so to your point, the idea of putting the North star somewhere else that gets you back in alignment with your strength and who you are, sounds like a healthy way to pivot.

Maureen Cawley:
Yeah, and bosses can change.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Maureen Cawley:
So if you're ever in an organization and you feel like, oh, your boss is so frustrating, your boss is so frustrating, maybe they're on their way out.
Maybe they're doing their own job search or maybe they're not.
And maybe you're about to get a really great phone call about something.
So in either circumstance, the best defense is to be prepared with what you bring that you know is objectively valuable, not subject to somebody else's point of view.
That's great advice.

Christine Laperriere:
I think that's great advice.
So one of the questions I love to ask people because, and I think even given your role, you'll appreciate this question, but I work with top talent and everybody asks, what's the return on investment?
And so I love to know when you think of, it's always the hardest question.
What is the impact to the bottom line of working for a best boss?
Why should we care if you have best bosses or not?

Maureen Cawley:
Well, turnover is expensive.
So first and foremost, right?
So if you are thinking about what it costs in terms of recruiting fees, what it costs in terms of training.
So any skilled professional takes at least six months to get up to speed.
So you can imagine half a year's wages are being invested every time you have to hire somebody new because you have someone in place who's not a great leader and not retaining their talent.
On top of that, there's the less quantifiable but very important impact of the alumni network of your company.
And you want the alumni network to be feeling positively about the organization.
Maybe they were trained really well.
Maybe they're still in touch with their old boss.
You don't want a team that is skilled and can't leave.
You want some turnover, obviously.
You wanna see people move on and grow.
But what you want is a fond affinity for your company because that's your employer brand.

Christine Laperriere:
I love that you say that.
I don't hear a lot of people reminding each other about the importance of how people feel when they leave is important.

Maureen Cawley:
Especially in this remote environment, right?
So I think a lot of times we forget that just because somebody has left our organization doesn't mean they've left our social circles.
Doesn't mean they're not still friends.
Doesn't mean that they're not just on a different Slack channel with your team.
So to be sort of negligent as people are leaving or not thinking about how alumni feel could be a pretty big mistake.
And that's where a boss has such a primary impact on how people feel about the company.
And that's why it's the company's responsibility to make sure that if someone's lacking leadership skills, we have to help build it for them.
And there's accountability too that goes into that, right?
So I've had jobs where the sales structure, for example, the incentive was purely based on what you bring in.
Nothing to do with how you manage your team or how you interact with others.
So you have to put a value on what you expect.
And so if you expect good leadership, you have to incorporate that into reviews.
There has to be a financial reward or consequence.
Yeah, and if you incentivize your leaders to be good leaders, you'll certainly see some positive return, whether it's in retention or the performance of the team, there'll be something there.

Christine Laperriere:
That's such a good point because again, these are the things that, like you said, they're not measurable.
But even when you say that, I can think of an organization I worked with that had a very good reputation as being a great place to work.
And the leader there, he could pick up the phone and hired the best talent in the financial industry in downtown Toronto.
And like every time we'd lose somebody or there's something that would happen, I mean, I just was always amazed.
He was probably similar to Max.
I don't know if he was probably the best boss, but he had a very good network and that business had a very good brand of being a great place to work.
I genuinely enjoyed working with him as a client.
And it's just very interesting that he was able to pick up the phone and poach people from anywhere.

Maureen Cawley:
Well, it's interesting.
I work with a leader today who's a fantastic partner and one of his hiring criteria when he looks to hire anybody manager level and above is who can you bring with you?
Because you want the kind of leaders who have a following and that has been, and we've seen it play out where there have been referrals made by people that we bring in and that just strengthens the team.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, yeah.
Now all of a sudden you're not bringing one talented individual, you're bringing many or a few.

Maureen Cawley:
And you sort of weed out maybe candidates who are bouncing around and they don't have a strong network or they haven't cultivated relationships.
And if they haven't cultivated relationships before, they probably won't do it here.
So we're asking upfront about the network of your candidate can be pretty helpful.

Christine Laperriere:
That's an interesting one.
I really like that.
Excellent.
So just as we kind of summarize some of this, if you had some real, I mean, you had so many nuggets and great words of wisdom.
So I don't know if this is putting you on the spot, but there's leaders that are listening to the show right now and they're aspiring to be best bosses.
They probably already are if they're listening to the show in the first place, but they're on their way, right?
So what would be some of the wisdom that you would impart to them, as we kind of wrap this session up?

Maureen Cawley:
To be a great leader, you have to keep the focus on your team and you invest in them and you put them first.
It comes back to you without you having to press for your own needs.

Christine Laperriere:
It's kind of one of those, the reciprocation will just happen on its own.

Maureen Cawley:
Exactly, exactly.
But it has to start with giving and putting your focus in the right place.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
I just heard somebody use the phrase earlier today, what you put into the universe, you get back.
And they were using it in response to a great leader.
And I thought, what an interesting, and I think so many of us spiritually can feel that.
That makes sense to us.
And I feel like you're almost highlighting that in a way.
It's like what you put into your team, you'll get back.
What you put into the business, you'll get back.

Maureen Cawley:
And if not in the short term, in the long term, you certainly will.

Christine Laperriere:
Right, so you just put it in, don't worry so much.
Let the math happen on its own.

Maureen Cawley:
Easier said than done most of the time, but yeah, I think so.

Christine Laperriere:
Lovely.
Maureen, thank you so much.
This has been such a fun interview.
I really appreciate it.

Maureen Cawley:
Thank you so much, Christine.
I've really enjoyed talking with you.

Christine Laperriere:
If you want to hear more, join me at christinlaperrier.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 50
Title: What do you need from us?
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Stephen Tomicki

Christine Laperriere:
And today I have a gentleman by the name of Steven on the show.
What I'm really excited about is that I have been answering some of the great outreach that I've gotten on LinkedIn where people have said, hey, wait a minute, I have a best boss and I wanna talk about them.
And so Steven is one of those cases.
So Steven, please introduce yourself.

Stephen Tomicki:
Thank you for taking the time.
My name is Steven Tomicki.
I live in New Jersey.
I have a master's degree for international business as well as an engineering degree from Villanova University, Go Cats.
Diehard Eagles fan, so I'm excited about this weekend.
I've been in the construction, engineering, environmental business on all four sides of the fence, meaning that I've been in the trenches, I've been in the boardroom, I've been an owner of an engineering firm, and then I've been on the project management side, managing staff and also being one of the Indians, so to speak.
That's me in a nutshell, glad to be here.
Thank you, Christine.

Christine Laperriere:
That's great.
And so I'm just gonna dive in with the question that I'm excited to ask you.
Can you think of who your best boss ever is?
Tell us a little bit more about why you think of him that way.

Stephen Tomicki:
Well, it's interesting.
I said, okay, let me go back to when I started working when I was 12 years old, how I started working.
And I think the big thing when we were younger, and it was just a way of life back then, things were different, at least that's what I thought.
So in my teens going into even my 20s, nobody really appreciated anything.
You did your job, nobody said you did a great job, at least for me.
I didn't get any positive reinforcement, it was only negative reinforcement.
There was no such thing as a team player, although as I was part of the team, there was always a good camaraderie.
And I blame my parents for that, for teaching me and bringing me up, right being the oldest of five.
And then as I transitioned, I went to school, engineering, had a lot of job offers when I got out of school.
So I was kind of like picking and choosing where my personality fits.
I did a lot back then to make sure I was choosing the right career path.
And along the way, there was a number of speed bumps with the wrong bosses, the wrong companies, being mistreated, people having tunnel vision, unwilling to listen to ideas from the snot-nosed kid, graduate in engineering school, who might have a good idea.
And this goes on.
So as I thought about the question when I originally saw it on LinkedIn, I was like, hmm, what makes my current boss the best boss ever?
Well, he calls me every day and asks me how I'm doing.
And that was before I had a cancer diagnosis and started chemotherapy back in August.

Christine Laperriere:
So he's always called you every day and asked you how you're doing.
Yeah, now it's just more often.
He says, are you sure?
I'm like, Rob, ask me one question and I'll give you one answer.
Ask me again and I'm gonna give you the same answer unless you have like a couple hour delay, you know?
And the company I work for has allowed me to work from home, even though my office is a half hour away.
And he's the one who said, you know what?
You can do the same thing from home.
We just will miss him in the office.
So, you know, some of the things that I mentioned were they're not bullies.
The reason I worked there is because he had a heart attack and was out for quite a while.
And the company ownership, which is a 40 year old family owned company, one of my friends is one of the owners and he called up and said, oh, what are you doing?
Can you talk to us?
I need some help.
And I was babysitting a job site out in Council Bluff, Iowa.
And I said, all right, well, yeah, I'll come in when I come back and I did.
And long story short, there may be an offer I couldn't refuse, but I was replacing him and two other people.
And I was really thrown into the fire.
And, you know, after a couple of weeks of recovering, he started to call me every day.
And the support was, you know, it was great, but I was doing most of the support as well.
So, you know, we created a teamwork environment and I changed a lot of the processes that were there.
And instead of him saying, when he got back saying, yeah, we don't do things this way.
It needs to go back the other way.
He didn't do that.
He goes, oh, these are great ideas.
We'll implement them.
So that was unique.
He's always willing to listen.
In the past, a lot of my bosses, presidents of companies, co-ownership, they bully you.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah.

Stephen Tomicki:
Whether it be a political thing, you know, one of the things that my wife was mentioning earlier from a previous job is that my boss, who wasn't doing too well with the team, decided that he was going to take the project that I had won with a very large beverage company, which was worth millions of dollars, and give it to someone else's credit and took it away from me.
Yeah, that relationship didn't last much longer.

Christine Laperriere:
Right, right.

Stephen Tomicki:
But, you know, because of political pressure inside of the company, that person who he had a 10-year relationship with, it went to the political side as compared to my two- or three-year relationship, which is, you know, I know companies have it, Christine.
It was really sad to be on the receiving end of that.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, it hurts, right?

Stephen Tomicki:
Yeah, and it's unjustified, you know.
But, you know, lesson learned there, I would never do that to anybody.
You know, creating a team environment for my current boss has always created a team environment, both as camaraderie with the guys in the field or the people in the office, but he also fosters that between the two of us.
You know, we'll sit down and have a meeting about a project, and it'll go an hour.
Where, should it be less?
Probably not, because we discuss a lot of the ideas that we have about, okay, let's not just discuss the project today, let's talk about it two weeks down the road.
I have a very unique project management style.
I work from the rear end of a project to the front end.
So I talk about caveats and what can go wrong, and if we go over, are we responsible for liquidated damages, et cetera?
And that was one of the philosophies that I changed internally that everybody understands, okay, where's our risk?
And a lot of them, a lot of people don't generally, they don't perceive risk, they just do what they're supposed to do and hope for the best, where I'm one of those people that I wanna know where my risk is coming from and how I can either get rid of it or understand it.
That was something that it was awesome for him to understand and take ownership together with me the way that I do that.
So that was nice.

Christine Laperriere:
He appreciates the diversity of thought versus rejects it.
So can I, if it's up to you, if it's too emotional, but I'm just curious, can you walk me through the experience of, obviously you started to recognize something was wrong and then you went through this cancer diagnosis.
What did the conversation look like with your boss through that entire process?

Stephen Tomicki:
Well, I was diagnosed with cancer in 2017.
Okay.
I had a mediation thing and it was fine for a couple of years.
And they decided that they needed to start giving me light chemo with pills just to keep it at bay.
It's prostate cancer.

Christine Laperriere:
Okay.

Stephen Tomicki:
And then after a couple of years, that was working well.
And then all of a sudden in this August of this year, last year, I'm sorry, it was kind of like a three-day horrible experience that I ended up in the hospital.
When I told them I was going, he goes, and you're okay.
It's like, I'll let you know.
And he started texting me knowing that he didn't wanna call me.
And I told him the next day and I was in the hospital for five days.
And then when I got out and I told him I was gonna get some testing done to find out why this happened, I didn't tell him my cancer was back.
At that point, we didn't know.
Just thought it might've been, I don't know, a kidney stone, something like that.
So next week I went through the testing and then that's when I told him over the phone because I wasn't allowed to be around anybody because my white cells were like zero.
So yeah, he was like, all right, what do you need from us?

Christine Laperriere:
Wow.
What do you need from us?
Yeah.
So he never once was trying to figure out how you're gonna work, what he's gonna do.
Like, no, it's just what do you need from us?

Stephen Tomicki:
No, and him, my colleagues, the owners, they're constantly, they send me food.
They sent me fruit.
They sent this gift card to go to get like DoorDash.

Christine Laperriere:
Wow.
You know, get well soon.
We miss you and don't eat too much.
You know, and I did lose 50 pounds going through this.
So now they call me Skinny Steve.
So it's pretty funny.
Some of the other things that I worked on him together with is, and some of the things that I had actually talked to him about in the past that I kind of was kidding and I gave him a warning.
You know, like, don't ever do this to me.
And it was more like a conversation we're having now.
And I was like, yeah, I've had some bad experiences.
Just want to let you know that I won't tolerate that anymore.
And he goes, well, what are you gonna do?
I said, probably I don't have really a temper, but I probably wouldn't like it.
And he goes, well, that's nice.
I said, yeah, you know, I'm 6'1", at that point, 270 pounds and the poor guy is 10 years younger than I am.
And he was just coming out of being sick.
He had lost some weight.
So he was a shadow of his former self.
So that was an interesting conversation.
You know, one of the things that I really enjoy about it is when he makes a mistake or when the team makes a mistake.
I learned this a long time ago.
It's a lesson learned experience as compared to a shouting match or why did you do that?
Or you're fired or, you know, it's just who he is.
And it's who I am too.
You know, why would he yell at somebody?
Although one of our kids, I'm sure, would have a different opinion, you know, but the other thing is he's willing to learn from me and he's willing to learn from others.
So if there's a different way of doing something, you know, he'll be more than happy to give you his opinion.
Like, I don't think that's a good idea or that's a really good idea.
Probably the most, I don't expect somebody to pat me on the back and say I did a really good job or I did a good job or that was a great idea.
I don't need that.
You know, I know who I am.
I'm 63 years old.
At this point, I know how good I am.
I have a pretty good self-esteem as you can tell.

Christine Laperriere:
So, but when you get that, it's amazing.
That's amazing.
And it's pretty amazing when you feel so touched by their response to you getting sick that it's emotional.
Like that's pretty special given that not many people can say that they feel that from, you know, they feel that maybe from their spouses and their family and their friends, but it's very rare that people say, well, gosh, you know, the place that I work at, you know, it brings me to tears when I think of the way they've loved and supported me through this.

Stephen Tomicki:
You know, my wife and I were talking yesterday.
I said, you know what, you know, I'm like three years and change away from like full retirement age.
What if I told them in a year or two that, listen, remember when I was sick and I worked from home?
Well, how about if I work from home from Florida or North Carolina or South Carolina?
Can I do the same thing?
She says, well, what do you think they'd say?
I was like, well, I think they'd say sure why.
And that's what explanation, but it wouldn't be, I know you're out of your mind.
You have to sit in your seat.
You know, it's, I think we've learned a lot, not only through COVID with people working from home, although our company didn't close.
We just had two thirds of the staff working from home and then the one third would come in and then the other one third would rotate out and come back in.
They did a really good job with the COVID thing.
So like working from home was not new to them, but I think working from home had COVID not happened, it would have possibly been different for them, how they would feel about somebody working from home all the time, seven days a week, you know.
And I'm just blessed that throughout this treatment time that I've been able to get through chemotherapy and still work almost every day.

Christine Laperriere:
You know, you're right, because they've created that flexible environment for you so you can keep yourself healthy.
You know, like you said, you gotta make sure you stay away from the germs right now, but also being able to get up and contribute in an environment that's not toxic, but is a healthy environment for you to show up to is also a healthy part of recovering from a difficult illness.
You know, like that's what you're going through would probably be harder if you weren't able to go contribute and add value to something important.

Stephen Tomicki:
Yeah, my wife says that all the time.
If I couldn't work or I couldn't contribute as much as I do, which is probably way too much.
There's times that, you know, I get out of my seat.
I start, you know, working at, you know, six o'clock in the morning.
Sometimes I don't stop until seven at night.
Not too often since I've been sick, but there's times that I feel really good that I've been able to do that.
And I get yelled at by this same gentleman.
Like, what are you doing?
Like, well, I'm able to work today so if we're gonna do it, you know, maybe tomorrow I'll take a longer lunch.
You know, do that.
So it's nice.
But, you know, some of the things that I learned in my 20s, I had some horrible bosses, bullies, people that would fight.
They would curse and yell and scream at you.
There was no positive reinforcement.
It was all negative.

Christine Laperriere:
Why do you think that was?
If you look back over the years of your career, what is it about that environment that, why did that work?
Why was that even sustainable?
Today, that sounds crazy, but I know, because I lived in that work environment too.
Like, why do you think that was?

Stephen Tomicki:
You know, I thought about that.
Like, was it my fault that it was either one?
I'm like, no, there's other people that he treats just as poorly.
I guess that, I'll blame it on poor parenting.
You know, you think about, and I knew him pretty well.
I worked there for quite a long time.
The only thing I can think of is he learned that from somebody, somehow, some environment that he thought it was a-okay to treat people like that.
And he treated everybody like that, from his au pair to his ex-wife, to his little child always yelling at him, put away your clothes, put this, put that, you know.
So he was just a nasty man.
And, you know, I was there for way too long, Christine, but did I gain a thicker skin from it?
I don't know if thicker skin is the right term, but I did gain a conscience of, I will never put up with this again.
And I had not, had not.
But the other thing is, you know, coming out of my 20s, going to my 30s and 40s, I didn't realize what a political environment was in a company, because at that point, I really hadn't been exposed to a heavy political environment, you know, or the backstabbing, or talking behind your back, or taking credit for things that you did, and somebody else would take credit for it.
It was like a bad Lifetime movie at times.
Some of the things, they were just, along the way, unwilling to listen.
It was their way or the highway.
You know, it was just not a comfortable environment.
But again, if you want to survive in that particular arena back then, you had to deal with it, you know, keep your head down, go onward.
That's one of my favorite expressions, onward.
I use it a lot, especially now.
I do have a couple of favorite expressions.

Christine Laperriere:
Do share, do share.

Stephen Tomicki:
Careful of the toes you step on today.
It might belong to the butt you have to kiss tomorrow.

Christine Laperriere:
That's fantastic.

Stephen Tomicki:
Yeah, that's one of my favorites.
I've taught that to my kids.
It's never, this is one of my favorites, and people don't understand what this means, generally.
It's never what is.
It's only what's perceived.
So if you thought you did a really good job, and your client, your customer, your boss, your company, or anybody else that you work with thinks you don't, it's, you know, it's not a screaming match that says, you know, how wrong you are.
It's like, look, they perceive it as, you know, not a good thing.
And even though you think it is, doesn't really matter, what you think, it's what's, who perceives it.
Oh, if you think you did really good at your job, and your numbers are up in sales, and your customers like you, and your boss comes in and says, listen, I talked to a bunch of your customers.
They don't like you.
What makes you think that your customers like you?
I don't know.
I kind of thought I was doing a good job.
They don't perceive that.
And I stole that perception.
They don't perceive that.
So I said, all right, well, it's never what I think, or never what is.
It's only what they perceive.
That's really helped a lot.

Christine Laperriere:
It helps you not kind of like over count your own perspective against those of those around you.
Right?
It's like, it's a smart way to keep in mind that it's multiple perspectives that kind of make up reality.

Stephen Tomicki:
Right?
Which goes back to that lesson learned philosophy.
If people don't think they made a mistake, and you're going to use it as a lesson learned opportunity to say, look, all right, you screwed up.
You messed up.
You made a mistake.
No big deal.
All right.
Let's find out why.
And is it my fault?
Did I not teach you right?
Did we not teach you right?
Where's the shortcoming here on our side?
What could we do better?
And you want to talk about change in the perception.
When people go into those meetings or they hear you on the phone, they're like, rutt rutt, a little scooby doo, right?
Rutt rutt in trouble.
And 10, 20, 30 seconds into the conversation, it's like, wow, I didn't think that was coming.
They're asking me for what I thought and how it could be avoided going into next time.
And it's an open conversation as compared to a beration or a demerit.
You know, going back to that Steve McQueen movie a long time ago, you know, a dink for being, you know, that's not how it works.
You know, if you talk to some of the people in our company and some of the companies I've worked for in the past, you know, who's our worst employee?
Well, I don't know.
It doesn't matter.
But some people would answer that very differently.
Oh, it's Jack.
He's, you know, he keeps doing this, you know, and that's a shame that that happens.
And then in an instance when I was working for quite a long time, I went and talked to Jack and I said, dude, what's going on?
You know, why do you keep doing that?
He goes, oh, I have bad hands.
And every once in a while when I'm holding something, my hands just go.
I'm like, oh, have you had anybody take a look at it?
I'm like, no.
I said, he keeps dropping stuff on his feet and, you know, broke a toe, broke a metatarsal.
And it's happened three times in two years.
I'm like, okay.
So now I know.
So as an owner of the company back at that, I came back and I said, look, Jack needs help with his hands.
And they said, well, what do you think we should do?
I said, tell him not to pick up anything over 20 pounds.
And I don't think it would be a problem, not a 45 pound manhole cover.
You know, but had I not done that, had I not realized that they perceive him as a problem child, if you will, and a liability.
And now we know why, but no one's ever asked on that.
They just say, oh, you keep your cluts or you keep doing that.
Or, you know, there was no understanding why it happened.
I think understanding that people are going to make mistakes for humans and lesson learns, understanding perception, teamwork environment, the things like that that I foster.
And then you're gonna, probably the next question, you're gonna say, okay, what's your worst trait?
You know, am I, this comes up a lot, you know, too nice.
I'm not the jerk.
I don't know when to put my foot down.
I certainly pull the rip cord, but I don't know when to put my foot down.
And then there's a difference as we know.
And that's a fine line to understand.
Pulling the rip cord is really understanding, you know, when do I need help?
And when do I realize I'm in trouble, that it's too late or just about to?
And, you know, again, lesson learned, how do you preemptively make sure that that doesn't happen again?
Well, we all know why.
Just understand your process from the beginning and realize that if there is risk, is it your fault for risk?
Is it someone else's?
It's do things come up that you need to understand that you don't, but you think you do?
Ask for help.
And I think that's where my current boss and the people that I'm surrounded with, they always ask questions.
We always ask and challenge each other.
A great example is we're doing a project where we have a lot of concrete that needs to be repaired.
And we said, okay, that's cosmetically making sure it's stable on the outside.
But how do we fix to make sure that two years down the road, three years down the road, that there's not a problem and it doesn't come back on us because we did the work, even though at that particular point we're going to say, okay, it's a foot below the work we did.
So we decided to talk to our client about risk versus reward for them.
Do we spend the extra time and money to make sure that the concrete is in good condition a foot below as compared to just on the surface that we did some cosmetic repairs.
And that conversation went well.
But again, going back to the end of a project, it's not when you finish work.
It's years down the road since your name, your company's name is on that project, no one's going to remember, oh, you only did the cosmetic work.
You didn't do the other concrete work that should have been done.
It's our fault.
So I think that's where my experience has come in that you got to think down the road where you, and of course documenting everything is another whole thing that I brought there that everybody was documenting things on their dailies or casual conversations.
So we created a number of things internally, at least for me, that I would document everything through email.
And it's searchable as compared to a text or a picture or a piece of paper in the paper file.
So it's, again, lessons learned over 30, 40 years of document everything.
As I'm getting older, there's a couple of reasons for that.
First thing that goes when you get older, your memory.
And the second one is, and the third one is.
Yeah, call me when you remember, right?
I just think that the communication, lesson learned philosophy, listening to ideas, spitballing, as they say, big one for me with everything else combined is it's a non-judgmental atmosphere.
Nobody says that's a stupid idea, you idiot.
And I don't ever expect I'd hear that.
That's really nice.
And that's throughout the 40-year-old company.
But maybe that's why we all get along.
Good listener, flexible, even before I got sick.
The support was there.
He's not a bully.
He never says I'm the smartest guy in the room.
He doesn't act like that.
He's technically oriented, but he doesn't throw up all over you with everything he knows, which is one of the most annoying things ever.

Christine Laperriere:
I think it's amazing.
And I think given what you're going through, I feel like that tells even a deeper level around the commitment and the character of the people around you because it's not just sunny days, right?
It's like there's dark days and there's reasons why I'm sure it's inconvenient for you to be sick.
And it's not, you know, obviously you're, you know, you matter.
And so they'd like you to come back.
But, you know, in the meantime, they're struggling because your work is not being done, you know, at the same level.
And so it just speaks so much to how they respond to that.
I've shared a story before where I went through a concussion and I had two different leaders I was working with.
One who, you know, dragged me out of bed for a 5 a.m.
call because he was working in Germany and then berated me because there was something wrong with the slide deck.
And I was mid-concussion and going, I don't even know what my name is right now.
So like, this is really frustrating.
And he knew it.
I had already asked to move the meeting, but it was, you know, to him, it was like, we need this project done.
And then the second leader who I spoke with that day, right around that time, I said, I just suffered a concussion and I'm, you know, I'm having a rough week.
And he actually said, I want you to invoice me right now.
The last thing I want you to worry about is money.
Like, I want you to take as long as you need, get fully better, and we'll just make it up down the road.
And just the, the, the you first, like, you know, genuinely, his highest priority was making sure that I was healthy.
And then secondary, it was getting the project done that we were working on together.
But for him to just be so conscious of that human element, it spoke volumes, right?
And it was so interesting because it wasn't, it sounds like common sense, but then meanwhile, I literally got on a call with somebody who woke me up, you know, who said, well, the only time convenient for me is 5 a.m.
your time.
And then I'm on a call at 5 a.m.
And, you know, something was wrong with the slide deck.
And he just decided that that was going to be a 20 minute berating concussion and all.
It just didn't matter, you know?
And I was like, this is really so interesting to have these two very vast different experiences.

Stephen Tomicki:
And I, I've had Christine, and I'm sure you have too, we've had really good positive experiences in our career, and we will have other positive experiences.
But I think we remember the negative ones more, whether it be due to lack of understanding or while I came out of left field, I don't know where that expression came from, but, you know, it's like, wow, where the heck did that come from?
When those surprises happen, I want to dive into it.
One of the other expressions I use is, post-mortem doesn't mean after death.
It just means after you're all done, whether you made mistakes, made the profit you're supposed to make, or the client was happy, you have to deal with the positives and the negatives, the goods, the bads, the, wow, we could have made a lot more money over there if we had done this.
So it's, you know, like the end scenario.
If we did this and we did that, other people, when you say you're going to do post-mortem, you're like, you know, at the end of a project, they're going to actually talk about the project being, you know, how you created death, you know, and it's amazing that people view things differently.
If you look up, talk to different age groups, different experiences, and you say I'm going to do a post-mortem with you, they get all frazzled.
They're like, well, what's that?
Or there, this goes back to that perception word again.
What do they perceive as a post-mortem?
All right, in the past, people are going to get laid.
Heads are going to roll.
Fingers are going to be pointed, right?
Post-mortem.
It's not like that from my career in the last, I don't know, 20 years.
It's been a, okay, we did well here.
We didn't do well here.
Let's see if there's any SOP, standard operating procedure.
If there's an SOP that needs to be revised, changed, added, deleted, you know, or process that needs to be updated.
Let's do it.
Let's understand.
A lot of people don't.
They just want to know, okay, we were supposed to make 32% profit, we only made 21.
All right, tell me why.
And that's it.
Okay, great.
Off the call.
I've been on calls like that.
When you get off the call, I'm like, they don't want to hear anything else?
I'm like, okay, short-sighted.
Stole ideas and took credit for it themselves and didn't give you credit for it.

Christine Laperriere:
Idea thieves, they're all over the place.
I was just in a conversation not that long ago with somebody who was taking quite a bit of credit for something.
And I was just reminded.
I was reminded that it had been a while since I went through that and how wildly frustrating it is to sit on a call and have somebody brag about their great idea that you had been championing for much longer than they've even been in the role.

Stephen Tomicki:
Yeah, and the beauty of all this, even before I got sick, I don't worry about that now.
I've been here two and a half years and I don't worry about spewing my ideas and being you're an idiot or where you get that idea from.
Go back to the ice cream parlor and write it down on a napkin and throw it away.
Again, some of the expressions that people have thrown at me, that's not a good idea.
But go back to the ice cream parlor with the five-year-olds, write it down on a napkin and throw the napkin away next time you have an idea like that.

Christine Laperriere:
I've never heard that before.

Stephen Tomicki:
Well, you've got to consider the source.

Christine Laperriere:
That one wins top condescending statement of, you know.

Stephen Tomicki:
Go back to the ice cream parlor, sit down with the five-year-olds, write it down on a napkin and throw it away.
Next time you have an idea like that, go back and do the exact same thing.
I don't want to hear it in my call.

Christine Laperriere:
That one's, that's pretty bad.
So just as we come to close, Steven, is there a kind of words or wisdom?
I have a lot of leaders that are out there trying to be the best that they can.
I think you've shared a ton of insight.
I also think I hope we've really inspired some people to think about how you show up for your employees.
First of all, before something happens, right?
Before, you know, a life catastrophe comes your way.
But I love that it sounds like you didn't have to worry about being supported in that moment.
You kind of knew you were going to be supported and then they just blew you away with all the extra love and support they brought to the table that you didn't even expect.
I think that's an incredible testament right there for leadership.

Stephen Tomicki:
I think for leadership or whether you're, you know, at the Elon Musk level, not that they would care at that level or at my level or other people's level, I think that what we had talked about a little bit ago, it's not what is.
It's what's perceived.
So if you're thinking you're doing a good job with the people, you think you're managing them correctly as a boss, as a leader, you think, all right, let's hit the five top points.
Am I leading by example?
Yes.
Are my people doing well?
Yes.
Are they showing up for work and not taking every single day?
That's another pet peeve of mine.
Every single day that they're entitled to.
Are they doing that or are they really working hard?
Do they really understand what I expect of them?
Of course they do.
And do I talk to my people on a regular basis and I don't berate them.
I don't treat them as small.
I don't do that.
So if I do all those five things, but my staff, my team, they don't think I'm like that?
Well, how do you figure that out?
I think that's the biggest challenge as a leader is you think you're doing a good job and that goes back to that one of my favorite expressions.
It's not what is.
It's what's perceived.
How do you figure out what that perception is?
And if you do figure it out, how do you do a course correction?
Well, a couple of the tools we have in our toolbox is the lesson learned thing.
Talk to them as human being.
Sit down with them individually.
Don't talk to them in an open environment that, goodness, another one of those expressions.
The ambiguity of the written word.
The tone of an email and be misconstrued.
Sure, we know that because we communicate by email.
I think that's the toughest thing as a leader.
Whether you think you're doing a good job or not, your bosses, do they understand you?
Do they support you?
Do they really understand what your job is?
And you understand what your job is and is to perception both ways going up as it is going down to your staff, your support team.
I think that's the hardest thing.
For any leader, I think in the mid-level and maybe upper-level environment, I don't know if it would go all the way up.
The Elon Musk of a $20-30 billion corporation.
But I've worked for $15 billion corporations and met with the chairman of the board.
It was an interesting conversation in his office in India.
Very cordial, nice, wanted to hear what I had to say and then told my bosses, he's a keeper.
So my perception of that meeting way back when was, yeah, I was a little nervous, but I think I did okay.
But then to have that trickle down, you know, he's a keeper.
That was nice to hear that.
So some bosses get it and it might not be the positive reinforcement that some people demand.
And we know people like that, don't we?
They need to be constantly reminded about how good they are and you're such a value to the team.
Okay, great.
But when you get information like that, that's really important for me.
And I think for most, especially today, everybody is the ones that want to work.
We'll leave it at that.
They want to work harder.
They want to get new training.
They want to understand how they can better themselves.
They want to climb.
They want to get experience.
They want to be better at their job and be better for their company to be a better tool in the toolbox for them.
And I think that's a good portion, but not the portion that I really wish people would step up.
And, you know, so many people are, like I said, it's a, I'll give you a two-minute example.
There was somebody that was hired as a receptionist for a company.
And one of the added responsibilities was, can you do me a favor at night?
The cleaning people that we have come in here, the one that used to be here, she's no longer available.
She's going back, you know, to her other job.
So we have a little, for like the next week or two until they find somebody.
So they went around and they say, okay, this needs to be wiped down.
This needs to be wiped down.
And then please take out all the trash.
Okay.
So person comes back in the next day and she goes behind the reception desk and the trash can is still there.
But the other trash cans are all empty.
So the person was asked, why is this trash can full and the other ones are all empty?
Well, you didn't tell me to empty that one.
Now, I don't know how everybody that's listening to this is going to take that.
But that's just ridiculous.
They don't go one step forward.
I'll never forget that example when somebody told me that.
I was like, seriously?
He goes, yeah, yeah.
You didn't tell me to do that one.

Christine Laperriere:
They kind of missed the bigger inspiration behind the job.
But this was very, like I said, so fun.
I'm really glad that you took the time.
I know you're in the middle of going through a lot of medical treatments right now.
And so I appreciate that you took the time.
And I do think it's really special that you took the time to call out the great work that your leader is doing right now leading you because we need people to think, we need leaders that show that kind of compassion.
And leadership.
I think a lot of people are scared that if they're too compassionate, that somehow the results aren't going to be there or the business is going to go belly up.
And I think your boss is showing that that's not even close to the case.

Stephen Tomicki:
You want to know his name?
If you'd like to share it, we'd love to know.
His name is Robert Gauck, G-A-U-C-K.
And he's the division manager for the company I work for, which is AWT Environmental, based out of Old Bridge, New Jersey.

Christine Laperriere:
Wonderful.
And can we send him a shout out on LinkedIn?

Stephen Tomicki:
Sure.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
I just would love to, you know, all of us have had those bad bosses, but it's really fun to cheer on the good ones.
So it sounds like he's made a massive impact on you.
And I can feel it when I'm listening to you.
Yeah.
Amazing.
All right.
I'm sending you the warmest wishes for healthy, healthy, healthy months and years ahead.
And again, thank you so much for taking the time, Steven.

Stephen Tomicki:
Thank you for including me.
Hopefully it makes some impact for people that listen.

Christine Laperriere:
Absolutely.
If you want to hear more, join me at christinelaperriere.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 51
Title: The 6 C's of inclusive leadership
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Patsy Doerr

Christine Laperriere:
So today I have Patsy on with me, and I am so thrilled you reached out and told me that you had a couple of inspiring stories to tell us, which to me is the most fun type of best boss podcast.
So Patsy, I'll go ahead and have you introduce yourself.
Tell everybody a little bit about where you're coming from today.

Patsy Doerr:
Sure, happy to.
And thank you so much for having me on the podcast today.
I think it's a great question and it really makes you think.
And so I'm delighted to be here.
In a brief nutshell, my career of the past 25 plus years, even though I hate to admit that, has been focused initially on talent development, then grew into diversity, equity, and inclusion, then grew into corporate social responsibility and ESG.
So my areas of expertise are really around in inclusion, talent, and ESG.
And I've had the opportunity to run organizations at the C-suite level on these topics and primarily in financial services, but also in data management.
And I also had the opportunity to run a nonprofit and live and work in three different continents between Europe, the United States, and Asia.
So I share that with you all because for me, the global perspective is really, really important to who I am and to people that I work with, including my best bosses.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
Well, I'm so glad this is gonna be great to get your perspective.
Not many people can say that, right?
Okay, I'm gonna dive right in.
When we asked you who is your best boss ever and why, what were some of the first things you thought of?

Patsy Doerr:
Absolutely.
Again, a great question.
And what I first thought about was really the fact that he, my best boss ever, was really an inclusive leader.
And I really mean that in the sense of that he would really take the time to understand people that worked with him, what were our drivers, what were our motivations, who were we, who are we as individuals and as people, and really to understand, listen, and apply that to how he behaved.
And I really, really am inspired by that approach.
In fact, it's something that I try to do myself as a boss as well because I think that is so important and many bosses don't necessarily take the time to really get to know what motivates their people.

Christine Laperriere:
So tell me, as you would be in conversation with him, just tell me some of the ways he'd explicitly kind of bring this idea to life.

Patsy Doerr:
So a lot of it was about challenging me.
I'm an optimist at the highest end of the scale.
And so a lot of our conversations would be okay.
So we think about diversity, equity, inclusion.
At the time when I was working for this individual, I was the chief diversity officer for a large global organization.
And it was challenging, right?
Diversity, equity, and inclusion is challenging no matter where you are.
Historically, it's always been a challenging space.
And he would really make me dive into what are those challenges, right?
In addition to bringing people on board to the concept, helping them understand the why, the business case, the social case, even though we think that everybody knows that, they don't necessarily know that, and kind of digging into that, and also digging into both the element of quantitative metrics around how do you define success, but also, and I think this is particularly unique, is having that broad framework, but also really making sure that my approach and my role and my team, and his approach as well, was very individualized, and making sure that you're bringing one person along at a time implementing the broader strategy.
And so that's where our conversations got particularly interesting, saying, okay, well, what's the data behind this?
How are we measuring success?
But also, how do we actually bring person A on board, person B on board, and go from there, really holding their hand through their journey?

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
And so, I mean, obviously, he had that great connection with you, but how did you see him treat people that worked for you?
Or how did he treat other people in the organization, people that didn't report to him, people he didn't need loyalty from?
How did he treat them?

Patsy Doerr:
Well, it's also a great question.
So interestingly enough, slightly tangential, but related, this particular individual was a lawyer and came from running the legal business and then moved into a human resources capacity.
And I tell you that because he was very humble in his approach, I mean, already very successful with the organization, already at the executive level as part of the executive committee reporting into the CEO, but had this humility about him where he was always, always trying to learn something new.
So he really had that intellectual curiosity and then taking that to the next level, really having that learning agility to take on board that learning experience and to act on it, take the feedback and to act on it in every interaction.
So I saw him doing that regularly, not only with me, but with members of my team in terms of engaging with them.
He also did it in a very, very personal way.
So he spent a lot of time individually with each of us, his direct reports and our direct reports to really get to know us personally, which sounds very basic, but it's so important.
And that's not always the case with many, many bosses.
And I really appreciated that about him.
And additionally, I would say he was very respectful to everyone in the organization.
He was a role model for inclusive leadership and for respect in the sense that, and I'll give you a very specific example.
So if he wanted to reach out to a member of my team to seek their input on something, he would never do it without giving me the heads up or asking about it, right?
And that's a small thing, but it's really important.
And it really demonstrates, I think, respect very, very wholeheartedly.

Christine Laperriere:
He wanted to make sure that you felt included again in that what he was doing was all in honor of everyone.

Patsy Doerr:
A hundred percent.
And getting back to your question as well on that topic, I think the way he operated and continues to operate because we're still very much in touch.
In fact, I just had lunch with him two weeks ago.
He continues to be a mentor and a colleague and a partner.
At the end of the day, everything about him really goes back to inclusion.
So every way that he treated people in the organization, no matter who they were, no matter what level they were at, no matter where they were in the world, was always about inclusion and really creating that environment where people, including myself, felt valued and felt trusted.

Christine Laperriere:
That's amazing.
And so one last question about him.
What was it like when there was a problem, when there was a struggle?
Did you ever see him get triggered or frustrated?
And how did he still carry some of these leadership qualities on a bad day?

Patsy Doerr:
Yeah, wow.
My best boss ever.
Definitely has a very quiet and a very, very steady approach to how he operates.
And so it was very rare that you would see him actually triggered, frankly, by anything, to be honest, which also made him that admirable because he had a very stressful job.
We all did.
And yet, you never saw him lose his cool per se.
Having said that, I remember one example with an interaction with the board where something had been communicated incorrectly about our diversity and inclusion strategy.
And clearly his relationship with the board was absolutely critical to his success, our success, and the entire organization.
He definitely had a moment where you could see him lose his cool and say, look, we've got to fix this.
We've got to rectify it.
But it was very short-lived.
And once we were on top of rectifying it, and basically rectifying it meant just being more communicative and being more transparent.
So we were able to address it rather quickly.
But I do recall that moment.
And I think clearly the interaction with the board made it that much more important, but it was a very rare moment.
And he always would come back very quickly from that triggered moment.

Christine Laperriere:
I mean, it's interesting to see, right?
Because kind of how we handle our toughest day sometimes can be a really big metric for really how strongly rooted we are in our leadership values.
Do they just go out the window the minute you're having a bad day, or do they still remain present throughout the good and the bad?

Patsy Doerr:
Right.

Christine Laperriere:
So you also mentioned you had another story about another leader.
I'd love to hear it.

Patsy Doerr:
Sure, happy to.
This is actually a pretty funny story.
So this is another boss that I had who was very good at the time.
And this was quite a while ago when I was living in Asia.
And what I appreciated about this particular individual, he happens to be a man as well, is that he was very supportive of me.
And so this is a very personal story.
I mean, I think he behaved, he was always a supportive leader, but it was very different depending on the individual, which I also appreciate.
But he was with me as an individual and as a person.
And we had lots of conversations about our family and our kids and things of that nature.
And so one of the things that happened is that I would fly over from Hong Kong to Zurich for our off sites.
He was based in Zurich.
And so we would have our off site meeting and there was always some sort of outdoor activity that we would participate in.
And he knew that although I'm a serious runner and I love sports, I'm definitely someone who is not more on the dressy side, right?
So he's told me in advance this particular trip and he would never tell us what we were doing.
He said, you really need to bring some casual clothes with you, Patsy.
When I say casual, I mean like snow boots and the whole gear.
Okay, sure, that sounds great.
So I of course wear skinny jeans and Ugg boots and a little parka.
Where my colleagues are wearing zip up snow suits.
And the other thing, so we get to this place and we finally discovered that we're going sledging, right?
So sledging is basically in Switzerland, sledding down a mountain.
You ride up a ski lift as you would as if you were skiing.
And then you get in an old wooden sled and you go all the way down the mountain.
Oh my God.
I'm scared of heights.
So we get, and it was snowing.
I'm not dressed appropriately.
It was kind of darkish because the snow was coming down and we got to the lift.
And I'm at the bottom of the lift and all my colleagues start going up.
And I said to my boss, I go, I'm sorry.
I can't do it.
I can't get on this lift.
I'm scared to death.
I really, and there was no bar or anything.
And so here's the best part of the story.
So he goes, Patsy, well, you're gonna do it.
I know you can do it.
You're very brave.
You've moved all over the world.
You take a lot of risks.
You can do it.
I'm like, no, I can't.
He goes, all right, as if I were a child.
And by the way, I know my 30s at this point, late 30s.
He goes, Patsy, here's what we're gonna do.
I'm gonna ride up the lift and I'm gonna make sure that everything's okay and that it's not scary.
And I'm gonna call from the top and your colleague is going to stay here with you as we wait.
So he calls me from the top of the mountain.
He goes, everything's fine.
It's not scary.
Go up with your colleague.
It'll be fine.
And I hesitated for one second, right?
I just hesitated to say yes.
He goes, okay, I'm coming down to get you.
As I'm standing at the base of the snowy mountain, coming around the other side, of course, nobody else is on the other side of the lift, comes my boss with like icicles hanging out in his.
He's like, come pick me up.
I'm like a small child.
So I ended up going up the lift with him and I ended up having a fantastic time.
And you loved sledging.
And I loved it, even in my skinny jeans.

Christine Laperriere:
See, and that's interesting that you trusted him enough to go down a mountain on a wooden sled in your skinny jeans.
That's very impressive, actually.
That talks about his influence on you as a leader.
But even the fact that he came down to pick you up, there's something really unique about that.
It's like, that's how leaders bring people along sometimes.

Patsy Doerr:
Absolutely, because at that point, you feel very supported and therefore trusted and therefore confident enough to take a risk.

Christine Laperriere:
That is, it's an amazing metaphor for what it looks like at work, right?

Patsy Doerr:
Absolutely.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
So now when we started talking about best bosses, can you think of some that maybe didn't rank as best bosses?
And what were some of the lessons that you learned from those leaders?

Patsy Doerr:
Sure, absolutely.
Unfortunately, we all have not the best bosses sometimes, but I've had mostly very good bosses.
But when I think about a couple that weren't so great, there are a couple things that really stand out to me.
The first is the flip side of what I mentioned about my best boss, which is not taking the time to get to know you and not understanding what motivates you, not understanding what you like or dislike, not understanding how to manage you appropriately.
And this is something I've learned over the years as a boss myself, is that you really do need to understand that what motivates other people may not be what motivates you to start, and it certainly may not be what you expect motivates individuals.
So, and that does not lead to a positive outcome.
I think what that leads to is that you don't necessarily feel valued or trusted, and therefore your productivity and your commitment can suffer.

Christine Laperriere:
You know, that makes so much sense to me because I find sometimes when I'm coaching different leaders, if they're very driven by money, they'll go, well, I don't have to tell Jane she did a good job because she's getting paid good enough to know that she's doing a good job.
And I'm like, yeah, but Jane might not be as motivated by the bonus check as she is by the fact that you acknowledge her dedication in that moment or the great work she delivered or that she appreciates the verbal, you know, hey, that strategy's brilliant, you know.
Sometimes it's just that little bit, but if the leader thinks, well, I don't need that, then they just assume everybody else on the team doesn't need that.

Patsy Doerr:
Exactly.
And then what happens is that you're not only gonna have employees who don't feel valued or trusted, but engagement as well will drop.
That's exactly right.
You know, we as bosses and we as people reporting into bosses really need to think about what those factors are.
I mean, somebody might want a promotion versus a raise.
Somebody might want more responsibility and no raise.
You know, somebody might want more exposure.
You know, there are so many different aspects of how people wish to be developed or to grow their careers that not to take the time to truly appreciate or understand that just doesn't work.

Christine Laperriere:
Right, it's a huge lost opportunity in a very short bed.
One of the questions I love to ask people, you know, you mentioned this even in the conversation with your first boss.
So you've been in the world of leadership development.
You've been in the world of DEI, right?
You understand all of these, what I would call, they're kind of hard to pin down, right?
They're, you know, operations are, you know, it's easy for us to tell you what the ROI is on increasing output of an operation, for example, or, you know, making a better investment.
But making an investment in your people to drive leaders to be best bosses is a tough sell often, right?
Organizations are like, why should I spend X amount of money to build best bosses?
And so I ask you, can you think of a way that you'd articulate the return on investment when you're working for a best boss versus when you're working for one of those not best bosses?

Patsy Doerr:
Yeah, it's also a great question.
And having been to your point in almost every role I've ever had, whether it was trying to sell leadership development or inclusion or even ESG, which tends to be more data-driven and a little bit more quantifiable, right?
For that reason, I think the issue is that, and how to explain it in my experience and how I continue to explain it is that you have to think about the continuum of the impact of not having good leaders or good bosses in place.
And so the way I think about it is looking at the entire employee life cycle, right?
So how are you going to attract the right talent?
How are you going to develop your talent?
How are you going to engage them?
How are you going to advance them and ultimately retain them?
So I think about it in that framework of those five areas of the life cycle to explain that if we don't address all aspects of the employee life cycle, you're ultimately going to lead to, as I mentioned briefly earlier, to a loss of engagement.
Therefore, a loss of productivity and there is a positive correlation to innovation as well.
And so therefore, at the end of the day, you're ultimately hitting the bottom line and profitability.

Christine Laperriere:
Absolutely.
And that it's so interesting because it makes sense to us.
It's just hard to draw out those numbers, right?
Like $100,000 spent here.
If we don't, we can't see the direct line to $100,000 saved here, but disengaged employees are costing the business, right?
Turnover of top talent costs the business.
The amount of time it takes for a new leader to train a new hire costs the business.
So it's so interesting how all those things add up, but there's no CFO that can nail down the exact line item of that cost, which makes leadership development often seen as a nice to have and not a need to have.

Patsy Doerr:
And I think that's exactly right because it's very difficult for a CFO to really pinpoint that.
Even though to your point, and I've been through this exercise before in various organizations, you can cost out at least an estimate in terms of losing someone, having to hire someone, and then having that period of onboarding before they actually become productive in their role, you can cost it out.
And you can cost out individual aspects of the employee life cycle.
But to your point, it's very difficult to say that that's a direct correlation or that it's an absolute number.
It's more of an estimate.
So it's a constant business case or proving the case for the importance of development and inclusion.

Christine Laperriere:
Right, absolutely.
What are some of the things that you feel are kind of worth people understanding if they're really aiming to build more inclusive leadership?

Patsy Doerr:
So there's a couple of things that I would say there.
We talked a lot about empathy, which is of course the overarching concept, but there's some research out there that I would encourage the listeners to take a look at, which is done by Deloitte a few years ago.
And it's the six C's of inclusive leadership.
I utilize it a lot in my work and I'll tell you what they are.
The first is courage, which we talked about as well.
The second is curiosity, which really links back to learning agility.
And then you have collaboration, the ability to work with different types of people across an organization.
Cultural competence, which is an aspect of inclusion that in my experience is less talked about than others, but really understanding from a global perspective, but also from a within our country perspective, the different cultures and how people behave accordingly and to be conscious of that.
The other one is commitment.
So being committed to being an inclusive leader, actually taking the time and the energy to do so.
And then finally, and these are not in any particular order, it's actually quite a we all the way they describe it, is cognizance.
And that is cognizance of our own strengths and our own development areas.
And from an inclusion perspective specifically, being cognizant of our own biases, both of those that we understand and know and are conscious of, and then of course taking the time to learn those that are unconscious biases.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing, amazing.
Those are, again, all of us can be kind of assessing ourselves.
How much am I actually doing in these camps, right?
Amazing.
So just as I kind of bring this to close, thankfully we have a lot of people out there that are listening to the show right now and they're working on becoming best bosses or they are probably secretly between us, I'm betting that they're best bosses and they're just looking for more tips and more tools, because that's the type of person who takes time to listen to this.
If you could give them some real genius words of wisdom, some action items to leave this conversation and take into practice, how would you help direct them?

Patsy Doerr:
Sure, absolutely.
And I would agree with you.
I would imagine that anybody who takes the time to listen to different types of resources or read about development is someone trying to better themselves, which already is a best boss.
There's a word I haven't mentioned yet that I think is really important to call out.
I think it's important to really be focused on empathy and really just, again, it's a concept of understanding your people, but taking it to the next level and being empathetic and to try to find ways to do that yourself by watching other people, by doing the research and just being intentional and conscious of how you behave with your people and everybody across your network or your ecosystem.
I think the second piece I would highlight is the importance of lifelong learning.
After many, many years of multiple research studies all around the globe on leadership, it is still indeed the case that the number one predictor of success is learning agility.
And that really is that.
And I know that many people on this call probably know that, but it's important, right?
Because we all need to be learning.
And I think it's important.
I know I take every conversation as a learning experience, whether it's an expression, an example, a story or otherwise, to really take that on board and adjust your behavior for the next setting.
And I think the third piece that I would bring up, and I feel very strongly about this one as well, is to have courage and to be bold in what you do.
And we all have varying levels of risk aversion or attraction to risk, but to really try to be as bold and courageous as you can, both as a boss and as someone.
We all have a boss and report to a boss, no matter what level you're at.
But to take that level of courage and to turn it into confidence and be bold where you can and take risks when you can within pushing yourself a little bit outside your comfort zone to the best of your ability.

Christine Laperriere:
And wouldn't you say it a lot of ways that that courage kind of marries up with the lifelong learning in a way?

Patsy Doerr:
It does.
Yeah.

Christine Laperriere:
It's the courage to try that different thing or to do something.
The comfortable stuff is already learning that we've gained, you know what I mean?
It's already inherent.
But the courage is really when you put that lifelong learning into practice, when you test something new and you're like, I don't know if this is gonna work because I've never done it before.
I think that's a neat one because it kind of goes in alignment with that.

Patsy Doerr:
It absolutely does.
That's a great point because they're very courage and lifelong learning imply change, right?
So change is a line concept that you have this openness to change and openness to trying things and openness to being courageous.
So I see to your point, all three of those coming together quite nicely.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
And I love it because again, the empathy kind of also is, it's like having enough compassion for yourself to say, hey, I'm trying it out.
It's not about me.
I'm gonna experiment and learn and be compassionate with other people who are actually in the process of trying to stretch and be bold, as you said.

Patsy Doerr:
Right.
And then I would add that, as we think about the best boss, I think the other piece is, as we talk about this concept, it makes me think a lot about as a boss, giving your people the opportunity to fail.
Know that it's, certainly you don't want them to fail all the time because we need to run a business here.
But at the end of the day, to really have that, give people that freedom to know that if they do take a risk and they do fail, but they're transparent about it and they communicate it, that that's fine.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, I know.
And actually, I mean, to love those moments because they are so educational.
Amazing.
Any other last thoughts as we wrap this up?

Patsy Doerr:
I would just say that I encourage everyone to continue to learn as a leader.
I think, myself, 25 plus years in the work world, I learn something new every day.
And I would just encourage everybody on this call to take that time to do so because an hour spent, let's just make this up, an hour a day learning versus any other way of spending your time in the office or however your role plays out, it's worth its weight in gold.

Christine Laperriere:
Absolutely.
Perfect.
Well, listen, thank you again.
This was amazing.
And I think a lot of people are gonna be thinking about that, the empathy, the lifelong learning and that courage to be bold.

Patsy Doerr:
Well, thank you very much for having me.

Christine Laperriere:
If you wanna hear more, join me at christinlaperriere.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 52
Title: The competitive advantage of holistic wellness
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Serena Quaglia

Christine Laperriere:
Today, I'm interviewing Serena.
So I'm going to have Serena introduce herself.
But what I love most is when somebody sees and hears the show and they get inspired and it gets their wheels turning and they start thinking about their best boss.
So Serena reached out to the show.
She has a great story.
And I'm on pins and needles because I haven't heard the story yet either.
So I'm super excited.
So Serena, welcome.

Serena Quaglia:
Thank you, Christine.
What an honor to be here.
I think it's so fantastic that you are disrupting sort of the leadership sphere and looking at what's the positive quality instead of.
And I've been very guilty of this hammering away at what I don't like about former bosses.
So thank you for that.
And so I'd like to say hello to everybody today.
My name is Serena Qualia.
I am currently a VP strategy at TCS Marketing Systems.
We are one of Canada's leading sales advisory groups to pre-construction real estate land development.
So we do mixed use, residential, commercial, retail, hospitality, etc.
And I also actually post pandemic have sort of started a project on the side to help empower women in business, regain confidence that they lost through the pandemic and to empower them with competitive advantage based on what I have learned in my former career as a professional dancer and my current career in city building.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
Those sound like great day job and a great side project for you.
Amazing.
So we're just going to dive straight in.
We'll go right to the heart.
So tell us about your best boss.

Serena Quaglia:
So my best boss ever was the first boss I ever had.
And it's actually not just one boss.
It was the entire C-suite and management team.
I did a bachelor of fine arts in modern dance at the University of Utah.
And the week I graduated, I went to Las Vegas just for audition experience.
And I auditioned for this 100 million dollar show at the MGM Grand.
And after a series of callbacks, I was selected as an original cast member in this 100 million dollar show, starring a Broadway star, Michael Crawford, who was the Phantom of the Opera on Broadway.

Serena Quaglia:
Oh, wow.

Christine Laperriere:
It had fire breathing dragons, animatronics designed by George Lucas's shop of, you know, Star Wars fame.
The sets were so large.
We needed NASA technology to move these monstrous sets.
So it was really, you know, this immersion into this other world of basically insanity at the largest hotel at the time in the world and the largest show that had ever been produced.
So they were my best boss, being that we were, you know, in an entertainment department and we were kind of in our own silo because, you know, obviously we're not housekeeping, we're not marketing, we're not in the casino.
We're not in the amusement park.
So we had our direct reports and our, you know, our choreographer, our artistic director, the director, the producer, which ran our show and ran our rehearsals like thrill sergeants, but they were the yin.
There was this yin and yang.
There was this perfectionist.
You have, you know, quality assurance, the show, the everything had to be perfect.
But the C suite, the management team had implemented policies that absolutely gave every single employee, seventy five hundred employees at that site confidence and security in our wellness and well-being.
So I want to say that this mixture of the quest to be the best, the best show, the best product, the best performers, the best experience mixed with, you know, this management team that through its HR policies.
And I'm going to talk about that in a second.
They provided us, the employees, this amazing three hundred and sixty degree holistic approach to our careers.
We had intellectual mental wellness, emotional, physical, occupational, financial, social and environmental wellness.
So, Christine, I and I and that team, I have been striving to take elements of their policy and their, you know, management style and their empathy and their, again, quest to this quest for competitive advantage and kind of execute that with my own teams over the years.

Christine Laperriere:
My mind is boggled.
So you're going to have to explain how on earth do they do that?
Because, you know, people see those things as competing, right?
They see those things as the stride for the best and holistic wellness as in direct competition.
So I'm dying to know how did they do it?

Serena Quaglia:
You nailed it like this.
Woo Woo, Kumbaya, actually Christine, is competitive advantage.
It is at the root of competitive advantage.
So they did it.
So, so for example, I'm going to give you the first example.
So we weren't union.
We were just independent contractors.
And at the time, MGM said we will enable all employees to have a $5 baby.
Okay.
So health benefits, dancers, housekeepers, people, car dealers, you know, the people that didn't make huge salaries were able to, without health insurance, be respected, keep their jobs and deliver a baby for $5.
Like they, MGM paid all of the expenses around.
And you have to understand in Canada, we assume that maternity coverage, et cetera, is just, it's a given.
I know we pay for that through taxes, but it's a given.
In the States, not.
So one of the thinking was, well, people are just going to have these babies and they're going to quit and they're never going to come back to their jobs.
But the opposite happened.
Dancers, housekeeping, security, whatnot, went away, had their babies and they came back and they became lifers for MGM grant because of the, you know, the commitment to their health and wellbeing and their building a family and the supports.
So that was one example of, of this investment and confidence and security of their employees.
The second thing I wanted to point out was again, you know, when I worked there, this was early on in, in the HIV crisis, so one of my male dance partners, he was one of the first in the era to test positive for HIV.
And at the time there wasn't a lot of, you know, data solutions, right?
So he could have been let go.
The argument could have been made that he was endangering the cast because we sweat all over each other.
You spit sometimes when you're singing and dancing and insurance didn't cover the treatment.
And MGM grant took a stand that it would, it would help him with his treatment path and it stood by him and it set a precedent.
Like this was, these were uncharted territories and we're talking about, this was one dancer, you know, in 2022 MGM resorts international, their revenue was 13 billion and their annual gross profit was $6 billion.
And they cared.
And I don't know what it was when I worked there, but one dancer, they went out on a limb, like they, they changed this paradigm shift for that one dancer.
And another example, which I think is really where this woo woo kumbaya is competitive advantage.
So our stage are, we had the largest stage in the state of Nevada and bigger, it was a bigger stage than any of the stages in Broadway.
Like the sets would not have pants on any, in any theaters in New York city, and we had all this dry ice and we had, you know, all these special effects and fire and blah, blah, blah.
And so the HVAC system in theater was so large and complicated that when it, we had a dry ice curtain wall.
So because the stage was so big, they didn't have time to like have curtains close and they like would do a set change.
It did it behind dry ice and the dry ice had this chemical reaction when it was super, super hot outside in the desert and it created its own weather system in the theater and it's snowed on stage.
So this happened in rehearsals and you know, a lot of the long-term dancers that had done other shows in Las Vegas and had a lot of experience, they were like, this is unacceptable.
And, and because we weren't union, you know, we kind of those of us that were newbies, we kind of just went along with what these seasoned professionals were expressing, you know, that this is unacceptable, people are going to get hurt.
So long story short, we had this huge, huge show one night and there were all these famous people from Hollywood and who's who and media and of course that night it snowed on stage.
And so the elder cast members were like holding their arms up in the wings, like nobody is going on stage.
So this whole number, it was like a three minute, four minute number.
Like there's light shows and effects and there were no dancers on stage and no singers on stage.
At the end of the show, we went downstairs and all of us who weren't the seasoned professionals thought we're going to lose our jobs, we're going to get fired.
Like this is, this is not okay.

Christine Laperriere:
Right?
We just put the nail in the coffin.
We're done.

Serena Quaglia:
We're never going to work in this town again.
Right.
I completely like, so C-suite comes downstairs.
There were probably 10 men in suits and ties.
Accounting was there.
Security was there.
HR was there and we were prepared to get fired or our walking papers.
And instead the CEO said, I'm livid and I'm embarrassed and you humiliated me and I want to take this as a teaching moment.
I'm going to put that aside right now.
And I want to teach you a little bit about economics.
You didn't just humiliate me that that's not the point here.
I want to tell you how you impacted your colleagues, your sort of the beverages, the food and beverage in the theater, the cocktail servers who are not going to make tips tonight.
And they went on this whole economics lesson about how our split-second decision impacted, yes, the suites and probably some revenue and some corporate reputations, but they really focused on how it impacted the totality, the holistic staff and their livelihoods and their ability to how it impacted them financially and emotionally.
And the best part was the C-suite said, we really want to take this teaching moment to understand and let you know that we're going to work with engineering to ensure this will never happen again.
And they pulled engineering down.
And so engineering then kind of got read the riot act.
Like how could you and they, how could you have missed that calculation answers and debt jeopardy?
And it just became again, this kumbaya communication.
All the silos were broken down and we had this amazing was probably a two and a half hour session to communicate.
So this was like, I mean, coming right out of university, I had no, nothing to compare it to, but now I've had 20 years, you know, in management and other corporate situations, how I can't even imagine that level of patience and that level of commitment to solving problem solving in real time.
And, you know, the, the fact that marketing had to go back out to all of these guests and say, you know, we're giving refunds and we understood the implications of that and we all kept our jobs and we actually had way more respect for our leaders, right?
Because we learned so much and we learned, you know, it wasn't just about us and our like, Ooh, I'm going to fall down and potentially break my spine, but this really impacts every department.
And so that singular piece, I think I have in all my years post and in working, you know, transitioning into business and working corporate.
It's the single piece that I do not see.
And yes, right.
The, the interconnectedness of, and the interrelatedness of all the departments were working off the same song sheet.

Christine Laperriere:
I am just floored by that story.
It is so cool to me.
I've never heard anything quite like it.
And, you know, I used to launch, you know, my career started as an engineer at Chrysler.
And so I was responsible for JD powers and I was responsible for how the customer interfaced with the vehicle once it was shipped, but I also worked in the plant and so, you know, what I, I've never seen in the way that you said that story, we were so siloed that anytime there was a problem, it was more who to shoot.
Yes, it was the hootiest shoot.
They were like, pull the engineer out here and let's shoot them.
Oh, it must be quality or it must be design or it must be manufacturing.
But it wasn't what I really think is so powerful in the story.
The way you gave this example is like, it sounds like they brought everyone together and then they said like, I need you to think about how you're, you're impacting things.
But then they turned to engineering and they go, I need you to think about how you're impacting things, you know, and so it wasn't like the answers were sure you guys made one decision and that wasn't, you know, it didn't go well, but that they recognized all of how everybody influenced that, that big giant fail.
Everybody failed that night.

Serena Quaglia:
Your hootiest shoot is so what I've experienced.
I mean, I've worked with some great people in land development, but, but we find that too with our, you know, construction doesn't, you know, decor center might say sell an island and a kitchen and an it's not, you know, on the construction notes and then construction's like, then the person moves into the condo or the house and they're like, why is my kitchen look?
And then it's hootiest shoot Christine that permeates so many industries.
And I think that is why this particular experience at MGM ground.
I mean, I honestly, the physio are cast physiotherapist was there giving data on well, if the dancers fell and then they have back problems and this is what it's going to cost.
And this is what it's going to cost them personally.
And this is where it's going to cost the you, the business.
And then the engineering department's like, you know, okay, well this went wrong and then everyone was there.
Sound and lighting designs were there.
Right.
Department was there.
The custodial, like the people who had to mop up the snow on the stage.
Yes.
Right.
They had extra billable hours.
So like they, this management team, like knowing how balance sheets and pro forma's work now, I mean, they were so super responsive to like calculate the losses across the board and how it's preventable.
And okay, there was that side of it, but they really were invested in it not happening again.
They were invested in keeping their talent.
Like we were known as the talent, right?
The entertainers happy and safe.
They were invested in keeping engineering, you know, employed and risk aversion, like not having to face risk and insurance policies and all that.

Christine Laperriere:
Sure.

Serena Quaglia:
Right.
So those calculations were going, you could see it in real time.
These people were like, these are super smart people, but they never made us feel like we were numbers.
And I think that's the difference.
And with some of the bosses I've worked in, like residential land development, when we're trying to blow out a thousand units in a high rise condo and we're trying to move everyone in, you know, like you're occupying whatever 600 people moving in on the same day.
And I did have a purchaser say to me once when I was working with sales marketing and customer care, they're like, you're just treating me like I'm a number.
You just want my occupy, you know, you just want my, all my checks to clear today.
I am not a number.
This is the biggest expense I've ever made in my life.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Serena Quaglia:
I was like, wow, that difference that, you know, to calibrate the business side, the numbers side with people behind these numbers.

Christine Laperriere:
You know, I think that's incredible.
I think it's incredible.
And it's just such a great testament to what happens when you decide that we all failed today, right?
We all failed.
And so we're all going to fix it.
And every single one of you, you know, is going to figure out what part you played in this failure.

Serena Quaglia:
You're right.
Because too, like, I mean, I was probably one of the least like that I was right out of school.
So like, that was my first job, job, job, real job, like paying job.
And I, at that moment too, was like, well, I'm feeling strong-armed.
Like I, I probably would have gone out on stage and danced while it's snowing and not really thought much of it if I fell down, whatever.
So even at that level of minutiae, like, you know, I'm just being led by these task members that maybe don't have my best interest.
Like, you know, there's all the independence and then the collectiveness and then the, you're reporting up and then the, so all these different dynamics.
And we really had to, to your point, all of us sat there downstairs with our rehearsal area, like three stories down in the basement.
There was this massive, like this huge, and we all sat on the floor and we, none of us left that night until to your point, we talked it through, we, there were tears, there were the, here's the problem.
Here's how it could have played out.
Here's the implications.
Here's what we're going to do.
So it doesn't play out, like how we can fix it here, all the note-takers like all, you know, they were, they were documenting this.
And it's interesting Christine, because, because of that, that kind of convergence of problems and management and problem solving.
And I wrote my master's thesis actually about my time at MGM Grant, I went back and did an ethnography about this convergence of, you know, performing arts, built form architecture, technology, how it all works in place making.
That's actually how I ended up in land development.
But the point being, when I went back to MGM years later, whoever was left there in management was like, Serena, I want to go on record and interview, be part of the interview of your, you know, your research, they actually read my thesis.
Oh, that's so cool.

Christine Laperriere:
That's amazing.

Serena Quaglia:
Isn't that hilarious?

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, what a cool story though.
Like I said, I'm immediately, and even, you know, the $5 baby, like what a, you know, I didn't know where you were going with that when you first said it and I was like, now I'm listening, I'm going, I can only imagine how the feeling of just knowing that that's how your company views it, or, you know, when I think of what the 80s would have been like for somebody who was first diagnosed with HIV and, you people who were diagnosed with that early went through to think that the company, you know, took care of them and said, you know, hey, this is who we are.
Like, like you said, $6 billion in profit.

Serena Quaglia:
And why should they care?
Right.
And point two, your insight actually really, it's made me think the $5 baby, they actually, that was a HR corporate.
That was a way to gain competitive advantage in the marketplace.
They, MGM set out to, because at the time the Mirage, the Baragio, New York, New York, like all these, the Luxor, like these big mega resorts were biting on MGM's heels.
Right.
And they were cutting into market share and MGM made a conscious decision that part of their recruiting technique was this $5 baby.
They wanted the best, the brightest, the most visionary.
They wanted long-term employees.
They didn't want churn.
And so that someone, some analyst somewhere did the math, right?
If we treat our employees with deliver what they want, they will stay with us.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.

Serena Quaglia:
Counterintuitive, but it, but it works.
I had girlfriends and my castmates who were there for 15 years.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
I think, you know, the thing that's landing to me while I'm thinking about what you're saying, cause I'm really having a massive epiphany too.
It's like, you can hold people to this excruciatingly high level of performance if you care about them, like to no end.
Do you know what I mean?

Serena Quaglia:
I love how you sum that up because our, my direct Gail Siegler, she was our assistant choreographer.
Our choreographer was from London.
He did tons of West End shows.
He did chess.
He did all these things, but on the ground, on the boots, like every day, you know, we had notes, we had criticisms, we were like, it was, we were raised that way though.
And Dan, competitive dance, you're like, you're trying to achieve perfection, and the quality assurance on that, like she, she was a drill sergeant, but because we were all raised in that sort of that mindset, we, okay, we would be grumpy about it some days, but it was to your point, the bigger overarching backdrop, there was this big hug, right?
This big, you know, we're giving you, we might be really hard on you with your performance notes and you're not hitting your mark.
And we're gonna, you know, and we're going to tell you, we're going to be critical on these 10 points, but just know that you also have the best physiotherapist in the state, downstairs accessible 24 hours a day, you also have X, Y, Z, P, Q, right?
So there was this equilibrium of.
I'm going to go to work and perform, give 100% every day.
And I am going to be rewarded for it.
Oh, here's another interesting point too.
They, in our welcome packages, like when you checked in with HR, they gave us this booklet, the AGM booklet, the, you know, and here's how to invest.
And here's how shares work.
And here's how we want you to buy some shares so that you come to the AGM, so you have a vote and you have a voice and here's why it's important for you to have a voice.
And here's how we want to help you.
We don't want you to gamble on our properties and we want you to save your money and do like, I mean, this was, it was kind of lost on me at the time.
Cause I was young.
I was like right at the school.
Fortunately, my dad was like, Trina buy some, buy 10 shares and then you can go to this meeting.
And so I did, and then my, some of my castmates did, and like, this is how they, they were invested in us to, to grow financially, intellectually, emotionally.

Christine Laperriere:
That is really something.
I can't believe it.
I'm like listening to this going, this is really cool.
I haven't heard a story like this one in a while.

Serena Quaglia:
Well, it's so interesting because you who came through with a master's degree in engineering and now you are helping, you know, kind of holistic development and in leaders and in business owners and helping people level off.
It's so interesting to me because, because coming, I come from the opposite, right?
And it came to me soft sciences side and ended up in a business that it is all just numbers, numbers, numbers, numbers, revenue, balance sheet, balance sheet, balance sheet.
And so the blending of the best of both worlds really creates amazing, amazingness.
I think you probably see that yourself.

Christine Laperriere:
Absolutely.
That's what I'm just, like I said, I'm just really very impressed.
And I just, I just wrote down in my notes.
I was really thinking about this extreme performance requires extreme wellness.

Serena Quaglia:
Yes.

Christine Laperriere:
Like, what if you believed that?
Like it sounds like they believed it so much that it became the way they drove, like, so we have got to take such good care of you because the level of performance that we're expecting, like it cannot be your wellness that is the drain on you.

Serena Quaglia:
You know what?
I have a, I have the complete opposite.
So I jumped on some cruise ships and did some cruise ship contracts to whatever, travel, see the world, whatnot.
And one of the choreographers slash producers of one of our shows, and this was a, this was a reputable big ship, big budget.
I was written up.
I got in trouble on that contract because I didn't drink with customers because I didn't drink alcohol at MGM ground.
We were drug tested and we couldn't show up with a hangover, et cetera.
And on this cruise ship, they were like, you have to, you know, participate and be friendly with the guests.
And I was Serena.
We want it.
You don't drink your, I don't never see you with a drink in your hand, sitting with the passengers.
And I'm like, like this to me, I'm in this, you know, present profession that demands elite physical performance.
And I'm getting reprimanded for not drinking alcoholic beverages.
So that one, I couldn't compute.
I was like, this is not the place for me.
That said, MGM resorts to your point, wellness extended beyond.
You know, the physical wellness of dancers or housekeepers or it's really interesting to we, the, the cafeteria was probably a city block.
It was on the, it was two levels below the lobby was.
And it, it was this massive escalator.
If you can think of these mega resorts in Las Vegas, like the whole floor was, and it's a, it's like a little city, right?
So 24 hours a day.
So it was unlimited.
It was like, you picture the big buffets in Las Vegas.
That's what we had downstairs for, for the cat, for the get, for the staff, for the employee.
So salad bars and ice cream bars and whatever roast beef, whatever you wanted was down there.
And constantly the C suite, again, management was always getting paged because they were never in their offices.
They were always talking to the staff in this cafeteria.
And so this cafeteria, like we would all be like in our little islands, right?
Like the performers would be with the performers and the car dealers would be hard dealers.
And the pit bosses would eat with the pit bosses.
And then management would just circle all these tables and like, how's the food?
What are you hearing on the floor?
What are you getting pushed back from?
And why don't you go sit with, why don't you go talk to some of the, you know, the singers over there?
Why don't you meet the people in the amusement park?
It was like, it was like they were at hosting a party, right?

Christine Laperriere:
Wow.
But it makes so much sense, right?
So that's where you build rapport.
Like you build the ability to like, and know the people that you work with.

Serena Quaglia:
Exactly.
And, you know, I just read on LinkedIn, the CEO of Starbucks is now working, said he's going to work for half a day, I think a month or something in his stores and in Starbucks so he can get a feel of the floor and the flow and what customers, what his, the consumers want and what the problems are.
And, and that is, that is what these best bosses, in my opinion, did way back in the day to turn this business into, you know, such that it can have an annual gross profit of 6 billion a year.

Christine Laperriere:
Right, right.
And have, you know, I mean, it's amazing.
I think it's so great.
And it's like, you know, they, they kind of debunked silos, the ivory tower, the, you know, some of these classic things that we, so many of us in business, we've just learned to accept a lot of that.
It's like we, most of us accept the fact that we don't meet the CEO of most businesses that we might work with.
You know, we're used to like, oh, well, it's procurement's fault.
That didn't work.
And everybody shoots them.
You know, it's like the, that, that day they become the ones that get in trouble for that.
And so I think it's just very interesting that they debunked the fear that what if we treated our people with extreme wellness, would it be in competition with the performance?
And like they said, we're going to, we're going to debunk that, you know?

Serena Quaglia:
Yes, that's so well put.
That's so well summarized.
Like right down to the point, like, I don't know what a counselor ceiling does in a hotel.
Like I don't, but they wove it all, the interrelatedness of it all together.
Like we knew that all of that employee at the next table in that cafeteria had a purpose and we had, we hoped that they were filled in.
You know, that role and, and you know, they too, like I have worked in other properties where we, you know, the staff wasn't permitted to go out to the casino floor and you weren't permitted to go to the boxing match or the entertainment.
And at MGM ground, they were like, they would give tickets to the valets, they would give tickets to the housekeeping that had, you know, the girls that are scrubbing the, the aft tubs, like they treated it right.
They big ticket items.
They, it was, that was really special.
That was really special.

Christine Laperriere:
That's amazing.
That is amazing.
I love this.
Okay.
So just to go back now, when you think of, you know, I'm going to go to the question that kind of is really sticking in my mind.
So when we're busy investing in people, creating these best bosses, there's always a question around what's the return on investment.
So, you know, why would we spend all this money to help build these great leaders and run all these wonderful programs and everything else?
Right.
What is the return on investment?
If you had to guess, I know it's not an easy thing for you, but you know, like given the, you know, this was a while back, but if you had to guess when you look at the businesses that you're interacting with now, what is the return on investment of working for a best boss versus a mediocre one?

Serena Quaglia:
So output and productivity of employees, I can't say quantify with a percentage or a dollar value, but just having managed, having had terrible bosses and have been, been a VP for those terrible bosses.
So being the sounding board of all the employees complaining about that terrible boss, I can, a employee turnover is, is measurable.
I had employees just stop coming to work, like didn't show up.
I couldn't even find them.
I can't do it the other day.
Like I'm, I'm having pies.
I'm, I'm at the cottage and I'm never returning to Toronto.
They basically drove me out of the workforce.
I would say productivity and, and loyalty and going that extra mile.
Like, and problem solving in inter-departmentally, like I was a VP for sales and marketing and in land development for a lot of years, but there's so much crossover into customer care and what that customer journey is from the point of sale to when, you know, okay, they've got the, they own the condo, but it's getting built for, you know, it takes five years to build the thing.
And so the communication breakdown between the, you know, they got their AP, they signed their APS and they, they own a condo to not hearing from a developer for two to three to five years, that whole thing.
And then they, they get a letter three, six weeks before they're supposed to move in saying, you're, you know, you're occupying this condo.
It's yours.
And then not helping with move.
It caused poor, poor corporate reputation, which caused.
Extreme burnout for anyone dealing on customer service side, like customer care and customer service.
So the churn there, the employee turnover was, was terrible and the customer experience ultimately.
And I worked pre social media days and then social media days, right?
Pre social media days, you could manage that.
You could keep a lid on it and you could, your, your, the goal was just to keep people out of court from suing now there's Facebook groups and there's your, you know, and so the, the management of that.
Christine is what is the cost, the cost, the business and what people are willing to pay for what you're, what you're offering versus your competitors, the entire customer journey, the entire customer experience.
That's the cost.
Are you, are you within land development?
Are we going to sit with that inventory a long time because we have a crappy corporate reputation and we can't sell it, but the guy across the street can write.
So what's the cost of borrowing money?
What's the cost of training people?
What's the cost of keeping unhappy customers off of social media?
What does that cost you when you have to hire crisis communications PR managers, what does that cost you when they're going, you know, they're going on podcasts and they're the worst boss podcast.
They're going to talk about, well, I had this terrible experience.

Christine Laperriere:
That's exactly right.
Well, and you see that in glass door and some of these tools like LinkedIn for sure, you know, people, you know, when you get fired, I mean, I just read somebody's post the other day and they were heartlessly let go due to downsizing and budget restrictions.
Well, guess what?
That person leaves a story about how upsetting that is.
And it's not hard to click on their profile and find out where they just worked.
And it's like no noted because when I hear stuff like that, I, I do think why can you not be a classy organization and treat people with respect, come on.

Serena Quaglia:
Yeah.
And I think to your point too, you know, I, I'm older.
I'm 50.
I'm so I came from the school of thought where you don't.
You like the authority has power and that you just don't talk about your bad experiences or you don't air it out on LinkedIn.
Right.
Like that I just came through the generation...

Christine Laperriere:
Where you just keep your dirty laundry to yourself.

Serena Quaglia:
Yes, totally.
Right.
And now it's, it's anything goes rightly or wrongly.
I'm not here to make that argument, but it's, it is what it is.
So it's interesting to see some former management that I've worked for it, didn't, didn't learn, didn't learn when, when, you know, their brands were dragged on social media and they can't get their, their sales velocity slows down.
If they've canceled projects, the people who are have now have no they go to the Globe and Mail and right.
There's a full page piece.
So I think now more than ever, if I'm in management, I'm listening to you, Christine, and what you're reporting that you're hearing from these employees and middle managers.
And I mean, if I'm leading a big company now more than ever, I want to understand, I want to hire you and understand how can I empower my people so that we all, A, stay afloat, B, the shareholders are happy, C, we can all earn our performance bonuses, D, we're happier people.
Right.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
So really quick, if what did you learn from your least favorite bosses?

Serena Quaglia:
I learned what, that's a great question.
What did I learn from my least favorite bosses?
I learned that if you stay with the bosses that tend to be completely 1000% all about being obsessed with just the numbers, the bottom line and don't treat employees like people with emotions and needs and families and health issues that they might need a day off to take care of.
It can become emotionally abusive and overbearing.
And if you stay there too long, it's very unhealthy.
That unhealthiness seeps into like, you know, becomes a crisis of confidence, we internalize that, we physically get sick, but it takes longer and longer to find, you know, the stories, the belief in ourselves to be able to get back onto LinkedIn and say, you know, get out there post with power, kind of, you know, the roads.
So I would say in my experience, if, if, you know, the people out there are working with bosses that are eroding you, eroding you and your, your vision and your capabilities and your abilities, look elsewhere, move, get out, go, get out, go to where you're appreciated.
There are people like you, there are bosses like me and you and the people you help sustain that there are good bosses out there.
Wholeheartedly.
Don't like, it's not worth it.
It's not, you know, it's funny.

Christine Laperriere:
Cause I always say that we vote with our dollar, right?
So every time you spend money, you're voting for that company.
You're voting for that leadership.
And it's, when I hear you say that we're also voting with our employment.

Serena Quaglia:
Yes.

Christine Laperriere:
You know, so brilliant.
Yes.
Right.
Like we're saying, Hey, like if I work for you, that's cause I support you.
And I believe in this company's mission and what they're doing and their leadership.
And so, you know, vote with your time and energy as an employee.
And just like you said, if the, if the values don't align, move on somewhere else, go find a place.
Cause we're going to make being a horrible boss, unsustainable.
If we vote with our employment, you need to write a book on that.

Serena Quaglia:
Honestly, that is brilliant.
And write a book, Christine, write that down because I will, and I can be case study for, for the person who, I mean, as great as MGM, I know this is the best boss podcast and I want to focus on that, but I, I have been at ground zero where I stayed with one company too long.
Like I just, I just kept thinking it's going to change.
They're going to change.
We have, you know, that things are going to change and it didn't.
And I stayed there too long and it took me, it probably set me back too.
Honestly, I can quantify that one two to four years of my career.
Like I, it took me, I was so beaten down when I left there.
And I didn't even leave on my own accord.
Like I ended up getting pink slipped because they, they were like downsizing, but I'm like, what if downsize call it what you want.
I got fired.
And so that on top of, I knew I should have pulled the parachute that, you know, four years prior.
So then there was the shame and the guilt and beating myself up.
And so to everybody.

Christine Laperriere:
It's not easy.
It's awful when you go through that experience and it's hard to change jobs.

Serena Quaglia:
And it's hard to, you know, okay, this pay is whatever you need.
You have this lifestyle, but it doesn't cost anything to look for work or to network when you're, when you're unappreciated, right.
And I'm happy like work.
What is that saying?
Love shouldn't hurt and neither should your job.
Right.

Christine Laperriere:
I like that too.
I can't believe how much I enjoyed our conversation today.
Serena, I really appreciate your time.

Serena Quaglia:
Thank you so much for having me on your show.
And thank you for all the great work you're doing and for all the inspiration that you are sharing.

Christine Laperriere:
Thank you.
Well, your story is going to inspire so many people.
I'll be talking about this.
I can tell you.
So I really appreciate it.

Serena Quaglia:
Thank you very much.
And to all the listeners out there, all the best to you.

Christine Laperriere:
If you want to hear more, join me at christinelaperriere.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 53
Title: Unlocking potential through allyship
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Vasie Papadopoulos

Christine Laperriere:
Today we have Vassi on the show, and I'm really excited to interview her because she reached out to the show to tell us about a great leader that she worked for.
And those are my favorite stories, the people who are so inspired when they catch the title best boss ever, somebody immediately comes to mind.
So Vassi, please introduce yourself.

Vasie Papadopoulos:
Thank you, Christine.
My name is Vassi Papadopoulos, Greek Canadian, of course, by the last name.
I currently work as the vice president of corporate communications here at an agency in Toronto called BelieveCo, and I wanted the opportunity to sit down and speak with you and be able to really share a great experience of having lived through and being managed by a great boss.
It would have been in my last role, who is also male.
When we have this conversation, it makes a big difference as someone as a woman, in leadership spaces and in places sometimes where you don't see a lot of us as women.

Christine Laperriere:
Absolutely.
Well, listen, I just want to dive in.
So tell us, the best boss you've ever had, tell us a little bit about who he was and why he came to mind when you heard about this show.

Vasie Papadopoulos:
He really came to mind because in my previous role, and I've sort of, I would say, I've made a career in working in really, really tough industries.
And my last industry was a very tough one.
It was what I would say, very male dominated.
And so, you know, sometimes when you want to be a good leader and develop yourself and you don't see a lot of other women around, it's hard to be represented.
It's sometimes hard to have that voice, even for someone like me, where people would say, you know, she's confident, she's capable and so forth.
And so in this case, when I thought about what made him such a great boss was really the notion of allyship and being a man in a situation where he really tried to understand my perspective as a female leader in an environment where I was trying to be effective.
I was trying to be empowering.
I was really trying to work through a system and really make changes.
And so for me, that allyship, you know, sometimes is very difficult to find.
And it's difficult to find in groups that maybe not understand the journey that you're in or the things that you experience in a workplace.
And maybe I can get into, you know, what I mean by allyship.
And one of the things that he was really able to help me do was to sort of, as a woman, put me in situations where my profile was elevated and I wasn't always thought of as, hey, this is Vasie.
She's the social fun coordinator of things.
Or, you know, maybe she'll be the one that will organize the workshop or she'll do kind of, you know, she'll take on some of that administrative role.
And sometimes I think as women, Christine, like, we don't know that we do it.
We're sort of conditioned and we default and are like, absolutely, I'll take that kind of work on.
But then you realize in an organization, like, why is it tipped towards us as women?

Christine Laperriere:
One of my clients calls that non-promotable tasks.

Vasie Papadopoulos:
Exactly.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
They're the tasks that we raise our hand to help with.
And we're like, yeah, we'll organize the workshop.
We'll pick up the birthday cake.
But they're non-promotable tasks.
So it's a whole extra workload.
But at the end of the day, you know, you can't go at the end of the year for your performance review and say, but I'm the one that organized the workshop and I'm the one that sent out the meeting notices.
And I'm like, you know, I'm like, nobody's going to give you a leadership position for that.

Vasie Papadopoulos:
Exactly.
Right.
And it took me quite a lot of time in my career.
And I think maybe for other women as well to recognize that and say, there's still room to do it.
Of course, you could do some of it, but it was sort of, I was at a point where I didn't want to be seen as just the person or the go-to person and to be very blunt, to be on the social committee, you know, and go organize this and organize that.
And, you know, I had a conversation with this boss, with him.
And I said to him very openly, I don't want to be this person all the time.
That's default put into these situations because of my personality and who I am and what I project.
Like, I am more than that.
I'm smart.
I'm capable.
I have a good skill set.
That's why you hired me.
And so after that conversation, you know, one of the things he was able to do for me was there was an opening in our company's pension board.
So, you know, I was working at a very large multinational.
We've got this pension board where you need directors internally from various areas of the organization.
And he put my name up to say, Bassie, I think you're capable.
You can come from a corporate affairs perspective in this role.
And that really was sort of a turning point because it ended up becoming, A, he listened to me to be like, don't make me the social committee person to be very blunt, but allow me to really, you know, expand my breadth of experience and my knowledge.
And fine, like you can say, you know, why would Bassie sit on a pension board?
On the flip side is why wouldn't I?
I come from a different perspective.
I have a different background.
No, I don't have, you know, maybe the financial or the technical skill set of that.
And so that was, you know, one of the first times in my career where it was I provided that desire and feedback to want to be seen and to be able to do something different.
And, you know, he found that opportunity for me.
And I sat on that board until I left the company.
You know, I sat on it for four years and it was for me a very enjoyable thing to do.
And I really grew as a leader because it was something completely different and outside of what I would say, my normal scope of work and my day-to-day work.

Christine Laperriere:
I mean, that's a great example because I'm hearing some sponsorship there.
So he's advocating for you behind your back, right?
With the folks that make decisions.
I also hear he's elevating your influence, right?
So he's putting you in a position where you actually have more impact and influence, which really is one of the challenges we have, right?
In that environment.
And third, I think what's really neat about this is I have lobbied time and time again, that if we really want to drive the diversity and inclusion agenda, we need to build amazing bosses.
It doesn't matter if they're men, women, green, blue, black, we don't care.
We just need amazing leaders.
So what happened there is you having an amazing boss just helped retain you, helped grow you, and then probably opens the door then for other people that want to join the organization.
They now look up and see someone that looks like them, right?
So it creates a culture change.
But we don't need, you know, a lot of people perceive that women need to be the driver of DEI or people with diverse backgrounds.
And I actually argue quite the opposite.
We need amazing best boss ever male leaders who can sponsor and be allies for anybody.

Vasie Papadopoulos:
Absolutely.
And I think that's what's always missing from a female perspective is that we take that burden on ourselves and think, hey, you and I, Christine, we're women, we have to be the champions all the time.
We have to push the agenda.
But the way a lot of structures are built and systems are built, that's not the case.
I find that also exhausting.
Like, I mean, you do have to develop self-advocacy, but you also need a network of people, especially a good boss to then be your champion and your advocate.
And in this specific example, that's exactly what he was.
And it was like, I hear where you're coming from you don't want to be known as X.
And then he was able to find something that said, something that'll stretch me, give me profile and something that was also enjoyable where I could learn more.
And that was really like a good aha moment for me.
And I think sometimes men leaders feel like, what is it that I can really do for maybe a woman or maybe like a person of color or somebody that is not reflected in the organization?
And all I want to say is, this is a perfect example of something very basic and small that is allyship.
Sometimes the gestures don't have to be grand.
They don't have to be sleeping.
They have to be little changes where you're able to influence in areas where you can.
So then the reflection of that employee base changes over time.

Christine Laperriere:
And what other stories do you have?
I mean, tell me more about this leader and their ability to demonstrate allyship.
That's such a big word.
And just like you said, it's very hard for people to picture.
What do I look like if I'm being an ally?

Vasie Papadopoulos:
Yeah, I think the other piece in parallel with this notion of putting me into different spaces.
When I was working at the company at the time, I've always had it in me to want to do my executive MBA.
And that would have been probably four or five years ago now.
And at the time, I kept thinking like, how do I do this?
I'm working.
I have a good career.
I had a young son, probably five or six at the time.
How am I able to fulfill this dream of greater education and still be able to work?
And again, this is where I went to my boss and said to him, I really, really want to do this.
I don't know if I can.
I'm torn between I've got to do the program that takes 18 to 20 months.
I have to make sure work is taken care of from your perspective.
I have a son and a husband.
They need to be OK with this.
And what he was able to do for me in that case, and I graduated, I did my executive MBA.
I graduated in 2018.
He was, again, able to create the conditions where I was able to do the program.
He had done an MBA himself, which was great.
So he understood the program.
He provided a letter of recommendation as part of the selection process.
But what he also did is that he and I had set up a space or a system where if I needed the four days of the month to do the program, he was accommodating about that.
As long as I did my work and there was a balance between that, I was able to do the Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday studying.
And he went even so far to say, you know what?
Those are not days you necessarily, maybe I shouldn't share this, but you don't need to bank as vacation.
They're all part of your learning and development.
So a lot of companies would come to you and say, hey, you want to do this training for X amount of time?
That's on your time.
And so we had that sort of agreement that he would give me that time to do it.
And so right from the beginning, it was a comfortable situation where, again, that's allyship.
He was able to provide an environment and a system that worked.
And I made sure my end of the deal was I did my job.
I didn't miss my deadlines.
If I had to talk to him about that, I would.
I still did a lot of the traveling associated with it, but I still carved out time to do my MBA work.
And then also, you know, be a wife, a mother and everything else.
Like as a woman, you have to do in your life to keep everything sort of organized and going.

Christine Laperriere:
So this is such an interesting one because I'm curious, like when he provides an environment that you can take on something that's really important to you from a growth perspective, what did he get in return from you?

Vasie Papadopoulos:
Well, I think like doing your MBA program, what it really develops are a lot of sort of key areas for him in the business.
And I think I really felt like there was a whole new network that I was tapping into.
I think there was, you know, and him having done the program, recognizing there's a different approach in which you look at business, in which you sort of look at, it could be initiatives, project management, analysis.
And I think for him, it was, you know, she's going to come out of this having built an even better skill set and framework for the work that she wants to do and needs to do for me and for the company long-term.
I think it was more like not so much what he was going to get out of it, more so like recognizing what the potential was long-term, both for him and also the company.

Christine Laperriere:
But I think there's something even in addition to everything you just said, there's this thing about he has this star player and he gets engagement out of that.
Like he gets, you know, if you look, like employee engagement is so fascinating because lots of people, if they're really focused and really engaged, they can actually compress their work week pretty well.
The reason we're scared of compressing our work week is because we worry that disengaged employees are going to just start doing less work altogether.
But what's interesting is, you know, at the point that he is truly supporting your growth, you've kind of already invested in the growth of the business and supporting him as a leader.
So there's this mutual exchange where it's like, I'm going to make sure that you're successful.
You're going to make sure I'm successful.
And I think I'm just hearing that, like in the way that you tell the story, there's this commitment to one another because you're both out for the betterment of each other.

Vasie Papadopoulos:
Yeah.
And I also, I really like what you said.
And I want to maybe expand upon that.
While doing my MBA and working and doing all the other stuff associated with, you know, life, I would look back on that time and say, was it a lot of work?
Yes.
But I think it was one of the more fulfilling times of my professional career.
And that's exactly to your point.
I felt like I was truly engaged, very focused on what I had to do.
And, you know, doing my professional development in parallel and working with the company really enhanced both of the experiences.
And I think to your point, like you make a brilliant point there is that we sometimes undercut that employee piece of it.
You know, companies look at it and say, sure, do your MBA, you know, what do I get out of it?
But I think that soft piece, which is happiness, focus, engagement, structure, those are things that I guess you could say from a business perspective, there's not like a hard ROI return on investment on them.
But to your point, if I'm like content engaged and I'm in there, oh, there's a big return on investment there because I'm going to do whatever you want me to do to make sure everything is done well and it's done successfully.

Christine Laperriere:
I'm listening to you and I'm smiling because I'm just thinking, you know, I'm sort of synthesizing what you said.
And it's like a mediocre leader kind of views it as a one-dimensional thing.
Okay, X number of hours out of the office, X number of hours you owe me back.
A best boss looks in three dimension, right?
And so they see that sure, there might be a time, maybe they don't win on the exact hour per hour exchange of time, but they win on the engagement, they win on the problem solving, they win on the way that you show up and think about the business.
They win on the type of role model that you're going to be to the rest of the organization.
So they're thinking in three dimension and they're going, I don't care so much whether, you know, if she doesn't exactly meet 7.5 hours on Fridays when she, you know, I'm more interested in, can I get that three-dimensional return from supporting her on this growth path?
And that's what it sounds like.

Vasie Papadopoulos:
Absolutely.
And I think, you know, if people are listening, the best types of bosses look for that three-dimensional experience and that output because that is directly then correlated with, is the person you're managing or leading engaged?
Do they feel like they're being challenged?
Do you feel like you're really contributing to something?
And also, are you taking whatever you're learning and adding those skill sets in a way that maybe is completely different from before?
And again, those are the things that if you just look at, I guess in this case, you know, training or, you know, professional development, yeah, it's not just a, okay, they did the studying checkbox and got the paper certification or degree.
Those are all the pieces that over time you build a really effective group of leaders long-term.

Christine Laperriere:
So now this is a question that comes up often.
You know, I'm in the world of professional development and so there's always a question about what the return on investment is.
So, I mean, this is even a classic example right here.
You know, your EMBA was expensive, I'm sure.
And, you know, if you think of, what is the return on investment of working for a best boss?
Like, what does a business get at the bottom line when they have a leader like this leader that you worked for?

Vasie Papadopoulos:
Oh, for me is productivity.
And hard facts, it's like productivity.
You know that these people, if you really want to work for this boss, they're going to put in the time and the effort and the hours regardless.
I think on like, you know, more like the soft facts, I guess from a business perspective, it's like you have an engaged group of people or at least in my case, where you build trust, you build loyalty, and you build like an environment where you go, I like to work here, you know, and I want to be engaged.
And Christine, that's really hard to find, you know, and you've seen that with the pandemic and with people changing jobs and doing an assessment and reflecting on like, is this what I want to do and so forth.
Because that's really the ROI.
For me at the end of the day are those pieces as opposed to like the productivity.
Because if you have those pieces, the productivity will always come.
It works sort of in parallel with the trust, the loyalty, the engagement.
I'm content.
I feel like I'm part of something.

Christine Laperriere:
Absolutely.
That's great.
Let's talk about consistency again.
You were talking about during the pandemic, how much this idea of consistency started to shine through to you.

Vasie Papadopoulos:
Yeah, absolutely.
Because I feel or what I sort of witness or experience is that, you know, really good bosses or leaders shine in times of crisis and a lot of chaos.
It's really easy to lead a company or a group of people or a project when things are going very well, right?
Of course, we can all be superstars that way.
But when things happen and then the context really of the pandemic for me, you know, that's where I started.
That was my aha moment about consistency was, it was really fascinating for me to explore and observe leaders and how consistent they were in a time where we had no information, no data.
Things could change tomorrow.
You know, you're running this and you're running that.
And I walked away, you know, two and a half years later going, it was very interesting to see the people that really, I would say, you know, Sean, like they really stepped up and leaned into the consistency and really led.
And then others that I was like, that was interesting to watch.
And that was for me, that's why I raised this notion of consistency.
You really see it in times of crisis.
And I think it's really good leadership grounding to find yourself in those situations and say, how would I react?
Like, do I consistently then lead?
And times where, honestly, there were moments during the pandemic, remember at the beginning, where we had no idea what was going on.
We were in lockdown mode.
We were all sitting in our houses going, is it the end of the world?
Is it not the end of the world?

Christine Laperriere:
Well, and I think, you know, you nailed it because that is that idea of consistency, right?
It's the knowing what I'm going to get and knowing how somebody is going to lead each day regardless of what's happening.
So the pandemic is a perfect example of, you know, all of a sudden the sky is falling, read the news, like, you know, it's like the world's going to hell.
And now you have to be a leader to people who are experiencing that type of fear, you know, fearing for their health and their families and things like that.
So going back to that idea, how you showed up in that moment, most leaders will really be a very memorable moment of whether they were consistent or not, whether they were empathetic, whether they were self-aware.

Vasie Papadopoulos:
Yeah, I agree.
And I do, I really feel this word consistency is underrated or underplayed because I think people think it's more like a habit behavioral thing.
And I'm like, no, it's bigger than that.
It's really how you show up as a leader.

Christine Laperriere:
Now, what have you learned in your experience from not best bosses?
We all know what it's like to work for a boss that we will not title best boss ever.
And I'm just curious what experiences have you learned from those type of leaders?

Vasie Papadopoulos:
I think in my career, there are two areas I would focus on.
One is micromanagement.
I think that is really a symptom of leadership control.
And wanting to feel like you always have to micromanage or control things, really for most employees, or at least in my case, I've learned I shouldn't do that because it's really counterproductive in terms of how you want your employees to show up and deliver their work.
And so my key takeaway when I've had bosses like that was like, don't do that.
Don't feel like you have to control all elements of everything that's going on.
Give employees the ability to breathe and trust that they can do their jobs.
I think the second one for me, and I've learned some of the best bosses do this and some of the not great bosses do this is temperament and how you show up to people.
And the higher up you get, you really want to be a person that manages the ebb and flow of life, manages the ebb and flow of management and work.
And the ones that always had these temperaments that would just go up and down, up and down, that's a really hard environment to work in because you're always wondering who am I going to get today?
And so the takeaway from that, if I take it from what the worst boss was, was really working on being a leader is the opposite of that.
That having a consistent demeanor and temperament I think is really a skill and something that makes you over time a best boss versus a, I don't want it to be black and white versus the worst boss.
But those are really the two areas for me that I've either lived and experienced and then learned from it and taken from those experiences.

Christine Laperriere:
I really like what you just said.
I think this is a powerful point that I just want to drive home.
Consistency being a skill.
I just had an aha moment when you said that because when I'm working with leaders, just like you said, inconsistency is pretty easy, right?
You know, a good day, bad day, something's going on at home.
So, you know, to be inconsistent to your people, I mean, a lot of us probably don't even think twice about it, you know.
But if you have incredible emotional intelligence and self-awareness, which always seems to be the reason I get invited to the table, right?
It's like we need leaders with better self-awareness.
What you just said really reminds me of why that self-awareness and the emotional intelligence is so important because we're trying to build leaders that are consistent and trustworthy.
Just like you said, you need to know what you're going to get when you walk in the room that day.
And if you don't know, there's an added layer of stress and lost productivity that happens if you're trying to constantly anticipate what kind of mood is this leader going to be in this day?
Or how are they going to respond to this?
Are they going to respond poorly?
Are they going to respond well?
It's a lot of added, you know, pressure and stress.
So I really like what you said there as far as consistency being a skill.
I think you nailed it.
We don't talk about that a lot.

Vasie Papadopoulos:
Well, and we don't talk about consistency enough in life either.
Like, you know, you get to be good at things because you're consistent.
Like, do you wake up around the same time every day?
Do you make your bed every day?
You know, do you do things a certain way?
And when you have that, I know those are small examples, but when you have that consistency, it does build that like, I call it like that muscle of who you are to then you end up doing it and you don't even think about it maybe five years down the road.
And so I work really hard to be consistent.
It's a hard skill, you know, but you have to really work at it.
It's not something that I think to your point, that we're always aware of, but it's like if we're consistent, at least maybe in temperament or approach or you're open with people to say, hey, you know what?
I'm probably not having a good day today.
Just know that and communicate it.
But at least you're then consistent to know that, you know, things maybe haven't bothered me the last three days, but I'm just not having a good day today.
And I really, I'm with you.
I think we don't focus on that at all in leadership and we get a lot of leaders in positions where they're really not consistent.

Christine Laperriere:
That's such a fantastic point.
I think for anybody that's listening, I feel like, you know, let's, you know, when you walk away, go spend some time asking yourself how consistent are you?
When's the last time you kind of lost it on somebody, you know, and how would you show up if you were going to show up more consistently?
I think that's a great question.
Very thoughtful for our group.
I guess from here, anything else you want to add to this topic before we start to wrap it up?

Vasie Papadopoulos:
No, I think, you know, if you do want to be a best boss long-term, it's really understanding people individually and where they come from and what their motivations are.
And I think some of the best bosses know, like, I'm a certain way from a leadership perspective.
I do things a certain way, but not everybody else does it.
And that's okay.
But then taking the time to understand, you know, why do they work this way?
Where does their motivation come from?
Like, what drives them every day?
And I think once you start to understand that, I think you over time start to become a really good boss.
You know, it takes a lot of self-awareness, but you have a sense of everybody and how they fit in and all of that.
Because I think sometimes, you know, Christine, in our heads, we think our leadership is the only leadership model or the only leadership way to do it.
And I've also learned, you know, in my career, that's not the case at all.
Just because Vassi does it a certain way does not mean anyone even remotely does it the way I do it.

Christine Laperriere:
That's great.
And then if you were going to give any words of wisdom to a leader who's really in the process of trying to become more like that best boss, like, what would you give them?
What tips or takeaways would you give them?

Vasie Papadopoulos:
Mine is really, really basic is listen to your people.
So if you create an environment where you are open to feedback, discussion, people challenging you, people raising things with you, you will become a better people manager and a better boss over time.

Christine Laperriere:
Thank you so much.
This was amazing to get your perspective.
And I love the story of your best boss.
So thank you so much, Vasie.

Vasie Papadopoulos:
Thank you, Christine.

Christine Laperriere:
If you want to hear more, join me at christinelaperriere.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 54
Title: Creating a fear-free workplace
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Matt Stone

Christine Laperriere:
Today, I have on a guest, Matt Stone, he's joining us, and he got invited to the show through responding to a prompt on LinkedIn.
So Matt, thank you so much for responding.
That's gonna be a warning to everybody else that responds to my prompts on LinkedIn.
You may end up on the Best Boss Ever podcast.
So welcome, Matt.
Thank you so much for joining me.

Matt Stone:
Thank you, Christine.
It's really a pleasure to be on the podcast.
And it's a true warning.
If you respond to a Christine prompt online, it may put you in jeopardy of being on the podcast.
Be prepared.

Christine Laperriere:
That's right, I love that.
And can you introduce yourself just for everybody listening?

Matt Stone:
Sure, I've had a lot of different jobs, but almost a decade now, I don't know, it's eight, nine, 10 years or so, I've been leading, and now I'm the CEO of a company called Behavioral OS.
Its foundation was with an MIT organizational psychologist.
What I do and what we do is we work with executives to improve their performance and the performance of their teams through human strategies, what I call high growth conversations.
So focused on relationships, self-awareness, talking about the elephant in the room and showing that soft skills are actually quite hard.

Christine Laperriere:
Yes, yes, you and I both, yes.
That is amazing.
Well, very cool.
So I'm gonna go right for the kill.
So who came to mind when you saw that prompt about best bosses?

Matt Stone:
It took me a minute, but not much more than that.
And I was thinking about it and I thought about a woman named Jan Margozian.
She's long since retired.
She was at the Oregon Department of Justice years ago when I lived in Oregon.
Actually, before I even went to law school, I worked there briefly in the consumer protection department or office, I don't recall.
And she was the head of all the people who would field consumer calls, basically, complaint calls and concern calls over business improprieties or conflicts or things like that.
She just stood out immediately, absolutely immediately.
And what came to mind was she was, for lack of a better word, she was just a badass.
Nice.
Powerhouse woman, a woman in leadership.
So as a man, I was very impressed with the way that she handled so many different personalities and types of people with incredible skill, but she was not, I mean, you might say a velvet hammer.
There wasn't always velvet on the hammer.
I mean, she could really hit you hard, but she was very effective for a number of reasons and I don't wanna just blather on.
I'd like to know from you what direction to go, actually, with that, because too many things come to mind.
So yeah, Jan Margosian is my short answer.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
And so, yeah, I wanna hear about this.
So walk me through kind of the detail or the story.
Like, when you see her handling people, tell me how would Jan do it?
Give me an example.

Matt Stone:
The word I have to first come up with is authenticity.
Now, there's so many words that get thrown around.
That's one of them.
And then it gets thrown around so much that it loses its meaning.
But this is what it means in the context of Jan.
What she was thinking, what she was feeling and what she meant was exactly what she said and what she did.
So if she was angry with you, it was clear that she was angry.
What she wasn't doing was telling you that you were worthless.
What she was angry about was something that you did.
And she was going to then invest her time in correcting, informing, supporting, improving, whatever was called for, she was going to then take that step.
And I think that was actually a big differentiating factor.
This was a no shame leader.

Christine Laperriere:
Interesting.
A no shame leader.

Matt Stone:
There was no shame in her game.
She was not out to shame you.
She was out to do better, always.

Christine Laperriere:
So the point being like the frustration or whatever wasn't directed at you as a person, it was directed at the issue.

Matt Stone:
Never.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
And so it still gives you space where you can make a mistake.
You know, she might get mad about the thing, but it sounds like you personally don't have to be shamed into existence for your mistake.

Matt Stone:
She was so good at communicating in a way that was shameless in a sense, shame free, I should say, that being barked at or even yelled at by your boss.
Now, I'm not saying she yelled a lot.
I don't remember her yelling a lot.
But if she raised her voice where she was critical of you, and I observed her with others and with myself, I remember not being in fear about anything.
It was like, oh, I mean, I might've felt disappointed.
Of course there's anxiety, but not that fear that I'm not enough, that I'm going to be punished somehow, that I'm a bad person and not worthy of this job or anything like that.
It was just that behavior wasn't the best behavior or we didn't get the right outcome and we're gonna fix this together and we're all gonna learn in the process.
And I'm gonna support you in doing that.
The first sign of support is by being very honest.
And by the way, not waiting weeks or months to tell you that.
It was now.

Christine Laperriere:
So it was in the moment.
This is really interesting.
I'm just listening for some of this.
So the feedback was in the moment.

Matt Stone:
In the moment.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
The feedback was also extremely direct.

Matt Stone:
Very.

Christine Laperriere:
There was a lot of this, we're in it together though.

Matt Stone:
100%.

Christine Laperriere:
We are fixing this together.

Matt Stone:
Yes.

Christine Laperriere:
And we are gonna learn from this.

Matt Stone:
Right.

Christine Laperriere:
It's very interesting.

Matt Stone:
She was capable of taking on data.
So she was usually right.
This was a person who had a lot of experience and wisdom.
She'd come out of PR, a PR background and some other things.
And so, and she was just whip smart.
So she understood what was going on usually.
And at the same time, I don't think I had any doubt that if there were some data that she didn't have that she would have been receptive to that.
So we were in it.
It was a mutual respect that we all belong at the table even if we throw food at each other from time to time.

Christine Laperriere:
But that sounds like that would drive performance.
So, I mean, I'm always curious, obviously I'm in a very, you know, same kind of business as you are.
So when you think of the impact of having a best boss, you know, I'm always getting asked the question around return on investment.
What's the impact of working for someone like a Jan?

Matt Stone:
Oh my goodness.
Okay.
So there's the impact on the, in that case, it's not a business.
So it's a government agency whose business is serving the people in a meaningful way but it was also serving businesses because better that the agency did in protecting consumers from fraud and abuse, the better that the business community in Oregon would do that there would be trust in the businesses in Oregon that even a business that had a complaint if it's handled well, now that business's brand is actually improved because if the business cooperates and maybe there's an honest mistake, businesses are people made up of people who make mistakes doesn't mean a complaint does not equal much like her leadership style, a complaint about a business does not equal a bad business necessarily.
It's how they handle it.
And so I think the end result performance was, do we have a better, more ethical business consumer relationship in this state?
And I saw direct impact from that.
So the performance in terms of, you know, our complaints getting resolved, our consumers being protected and made whole when they are damaged in some way.
I think as far as an organization, if I were to project her leadership style, if you will, and her skills, that almost doesn't do it justice leadership style.
It was deep skill in communication at a human level.
I would say if it were a business and you were worried about retention, having a boss like Jan means you're going to have incredible retention and recruiting power because here I am, I mean, how many years later?
I mean, this has gotta be, I'm looking back now, it must have been at least 25 years ago.
I don't know the exact year.
It was a long time ago.
And I'm still talking about her, using her as a model when I evaluate other leaders.
And when I think about my decisions as a leader, I still think of her as this model.
So it's hard to really quantify the impact of one person like that.
I have to say, I think in terms of the lingering brand of that agency and that department for me, even though she's long gone from there, is that I have a positive image because of her.
So we love data, but stories are data too.
I think that in terms of in the brand world, and I've worked in the branding world as well, when you create an emotional positive connection with an entity because of positive interactions with people, it's almost hard to put a value on that.

Christine Laperriere:
Right, that physical, what that feels like for other people that have this perception of a positive brand.

Matt Stone:
Exactly, and I saw it.
I saw it with consumers who were complaining and her impact on helping them get at least clarity.
Sometimes there was nothing that you could do.
And the best you could do, which wasn't really true because by nothing you can do, meaning you may not be able to make someone financially whole because they were a party to a transaction in which they both had responsibility and the consumer made a bad choice.
And in that case, what you can do is be compassionate.
You can listen, you can give them clear information and not overstep.
Sometimes the mistake you make in a place like that is saying the wrong thing to the person, leading them astray, for example.
So Jan was very good.
Her PR background helped with this, being clear in your messaging.
Clarity is kindness.

Christine Laperriere:
Clarity is kindness, yes.

Matt Stone:
Right, so just being very, very clear.
And sometimes the resolution was the person's like, I have clarity now that I'm not gonna get the money I wanted to get back and I see my responsibility in it and I accept the reality now and I'm glad you informed me.
That was a positive outcome actually.

Christine Laperriere:
To feel that they were complete with their complaint.

Matt Stone:
Absolutely, I learned this way back my first job out of undergrad for like a pager company when cell phones were coming on.
So it wasn't exactly a high growth business.
That's right.
Meeting my quota every month was pretty tough.
And I remember the billing person who was this just, she was the sweetest woman on the planet and she answered all these awful billing questions and I remember her telling me how she would handle it and she would just really listen to people and she would care for them as human beings about how they felt about their bill.
So many times it's the bill that they owed.
I mean, it wasn't actually us.
They were upset and so just giving them space and validity that they were upset.
So often resolved the problem.

Christine Laperriere:
Wow, that's brilliant.
Now, when we first started talking, you said that another leader came to mind a very quick run in with a great leader.

Matt Stone:
Yeah, he was the vice president of a company I worked for briefly in a startup.
The name is Terry.
Terry's still active.
I might even tag him on this at some point.
Terry Ravnak, if you're out there, I think he's in California now, I'm not sure.
He was really, really incredible.
And one of the things that I really respected about him was again, another clear communicator.
He was working in a difficult situation.
Terry was willing to tell you what was holding you back.
And in my case, it was the way I was communicating with particularly one person.
He gave me this incredible feedback one time and he said, look, I see big things for you and here's what I see for you.
Here's the vision.
So he started with an inspire kind of flow which worked really well for me.
It wouldn't necessarily work for everyone.
We're all different, different circumstances.
He was very attuned to sort of what was important to me.
And he said, one of the things you're going to need to do is you're going to need to figure out how to have a good relationship with this person.
Whatever that takes, figure it out.
In this case, did he offer me a whole lot of support in how to do it?
No, but that actually, and this is where platitudes can fall short.
We gotta be aware of the guru platitude posting syndrome.
It's contextual.
In this case, that was the perfect thing to say to me.
Right.
He knew I was capable of figuring that out.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, you didn't need him.
He just needed to tell you, this will hold you back.

Matt Stone:
I needed clarity and accountability with some inspirational cinnamon sugar on top.
So I knew what I was going to be, that there was a beautiful future.
He saw the goodness and capability in me.
This was something that was going to prevent that from winning the day and allowing me to be my best self and reach my potential.
It was fantastic.
I'll never forget the way he communicated.
Again, we were working very challenging, volatile situation.
And Terry just handled so many difficult situations with grace, kindness.
I'll never forget him.
He's a great guy.
Great boss.

Christine Laperriere:
That's amazing.
Can you think of an example?
I can hear some of the feedback, obviously, that he gave you when you're talking about some of those difficult situations.
Any other kind of different memories that come to mind?

Matt Stone:
About Terry specifically, I can think of just there were conflict issues while I was there and even after I was there.
And I remember thinking there was a dispute that I had with the company after I left.
And he was representing the company on the other side.
And what's interesting was, I was quite upset about something.
And as upset as I was, I was never upset with him.
He was doing his job.
And I knew that he'd be a person in my universe that I'd have a relationship with if I wanted to forever.
And that there was just a healthy human respect there.
And I think that's what so many of us out there are trying to cultivate in our own spheres of influence and work is that actually conflict is an incredible opportunity for growth.
Incredible.
Absolutely.
Sometimes it reveals something in me that I need to resolve, it usually does.
Sometimes my end result is, okay, I see that it's rooted in something that I'm not willing to live with, but it always reveals if I'm paying attention.
And so I think that was the other thing comes to mind is just his ability to manage himself through conflict in a way that was so dignified.

Christine Laperriere:
That is fantastic.
These are both great stories.
And I'm hearing kind of that reoccurring theme of they don't forget the human element, right?
It seems like that human element stays a priority in the conflict, in the difficult moment, in the moment which somebody screws up on the team.
I just hear over and over again, it's like we're staying focused on resolving the conflict, not painting the person with a brush, right?
Or making it personal.
They knew how to protect that.

Matt Stone:
That's right.
I mean, it's probably to trite is the word, I think, that you need to figure out how to best leverage what is.
And to put it in non jargony speak, accept it.
And work to change what you can, but okay, this is the circumstance at this moment.
I'm going to make the most of it.
It may be less than ideal by a mile or kilometers, depending on where you're at, but really coming into acceptance and included in that acceptance is that I, I might have some growth opportunity here as well.
As dug in as I am about my position or a resentment or the threat I feel, it's possible that this may be a growth opportunity for me if I'm willing to look at myself, which is not always easy to do.

Christine Laperriere:
That's great.
And I just have to ask when you say best leverage what is, are you a Byron Katie fan?

Matt Stone:
I could be, I don't know.

Christine Laperriere:
You have to look.
She wrote a book called Loving What Is, and that's what I thought you were calling out there.
I was like.

Matt Stone:
Yes, I am, of course.

Christine Laperriere:
That's right.
That's exactly where it came from.
She has the same exact philosophy is like learning to accept what is and really work with that instead of trying to hope for something that is not currently available.
And sometimes conflict has that, you know, it's like we get fixated on wanting something to be different than it is.
And we can't get past that.

Matt Stone:
And I love that.
And what's coming to mind is sometimes when I'm, if it's my small self working, I would rather blow it up to get the definitive results and finality of it than deal with the struggle of letting it just be and go on and give it time or me to grow and heal and resolve and whatever I need to work through and for whatever other situation or other people to do their own, you know, to do their own process.
So yeah, that's a really good point.
Thank you.

Christine Laperriere:
That's fantastic.
So now if you were to just go to the bosses that did not stand out, let's say on the list of favorites, I'm curious, what's your experience been there?
Like what are the things that, you know, really didn't work for you?

Matt Stone:
Well, first and foremost is lies.

Christine Laperriere:
Yep.

Matt Stone:
I mean, that's just so foundational.

Christine Laperriere:
It sounds foundational, but everybody in business knows somebody who's done that before.

Matt Stone:
Oh, yeah.
I mean, it's a standard operating procedure of many, of many, unfortunately.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
So it sounds obvious, but it's not obvious, obviously.

Matt Stone:
Well, maybe obvious isn't the right word, right?
I mean, to the extent that humans are economic animals, you know, we are driven by incentives and there are people who are promoted in spite of, or because of, listen, I don't know about you, I've come across far too many situations of executives who were promoted at least once or more times to move them from a place rather than to a place.

Christine Laperriere:
Yes, I know exactly what you're talking about.

Matt Stone:
So we then put a cherry on, oh, well, we can't upset this person, but they're leaving dead bodies behind them.
So let's move them to another place.
And the bigger the organization, the more options you have, so you can spread the toxins around.
And so the feedback loop that that person is getting is that they're great.
Yep.
It's not only not fair to all the people that come encounter with that person who is not fully realized in their maturity, but that you're robbing them of the ability to have accountability.
I recently fired a personal trainer.
He was relatively new.
I thought that he might have the skills to do it, but he showed up late twice.
The first time he showed up late, I made it very clear to him that a priority for me was that I was gonna meet him and pay a significant amount of money and time that I expected him to show up early and that I too would show up early and actually warm up and prepare so that we could maximize that hour that we had together.
Because for me, the exercise is part of my job.
It's part of my performance.
And he showed up late a second time and I was not going to talk to him about it.
I was not going to, we're not gonna have any kind of conversation.
You fired yourself.
That's what I told him.
And he wanted another chance and there was a reason why.
It doesn't matter.
It's always a reason.
Right, it's always a reason.
And I said, so now I'm not gonna go around the gym and bad mouth you, but you deserve early on in your quote unquote entrepreneurial, I'm a trainer mode, you deserve accountability so that you will always remember this day when your client told you, you were fired at a bench press and you will never forget it.
And I doubt you're gonna be late again.

Christine Laperriere:
Right, you delivered him a favor whether he knows it or not.

Matt Stone:
I didn't tell him he was a worthless trainer.
I didn't tell him that he had no future.
So you're gonna do great with other clients and you're gonna do great in part because I was honest with you today.
And I draw that from experience that I had with leaders like Jan and Terry.
So I can't give away what I don't have.
And people like that and other friends in my life, people that I have, have taught me what it feels like to be on the receiving end of that kind of message.

Christine Laperriere:
So you, and you know, like there's gratitude in it even though it doesn't feel great in the moment.

Matt Stone:
Yeah, he wasn't happy.

Christine Laperriere:
No, usually most of us aren't when we're getting that tough message.
But I would agree with you that so many leaders that I talked to remember the tough feedback that they got and they were grateful for it down the road.

Matt Stone:
So that's it.
So I go back to lies.
And I think there's other things that we all know and experience.
But first and foremost, telling the truth.

Christine Laperriere:
I think the lies, it's so interesting when you say that because you're even referring to not so much the individual that has the problem with being honest.
You're talking about the entire organization that can't be honest with the individual.
And I think that's really interesting.

Matt Stone:
If an organization in my view, in my experience, if an organization has leaders who lie and leaders who lie and manipulate, but manipulates one thing.
I mean, that's tricky.
What's manipulation?
What's influence?
Can get to a point where they're binary.
That's actually one of those things where I can objectively determine if something was a lie.
I know, because I'm a former lawyer and you can determine whether or not something is a lie.
Did they consciously know the truth and say the alternative?
And we know from our society that people lie a lot.
So if an organization promotes and nurtures leaders who knowingly misrepresent truth about small things, about big things, then I don't need to know, I don't need to know much more data about the company to know what's going to happen eventually.
It may take a while, but it's just a matter of time.
You are corrupted.
It's just a matter of time.
That's the only data I need.
So to me, it sort of begins and ends with truth.
If I'm someone who's not very, if I'm prickly and I'm not very honestly, I can work with someone who's not full of empathy.
I just need them to care at some level enough about me to tell me the truth.

Christine Laperriere:
I love that.
That is good.
And you've obviously experienced that in both directions.

Matt Stone:
Oh yeah.
Haven't we all?

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, absolutely.
Oh, I was going to say, I can think of so many situations that match up with this.
And then, I guess to me, any other wisdom that you would give, I've got so many leaders who are aspiring to be amazing bosses and they're listening to this show.
So tell me, do you have words of wisdom for them just as we come to wrap this up?

Matt Stone:
We hear a lot of words like empathy, even feedback is meaningless until you give it a real depth.
I've described what it means for me in these contexts, but it means nothing unless you're talking about the context of things.
So relying on platitudes for leadership is, we're just buried in information is not where it's at.
It's really, so even authenticity, it's like, okay, yes, be authentic, but keep searching for what it means to you.
Why, we talk about Simon Sinek got famous with asking about your why.
And that's really important.
When it comes to self-awareness in these kinds of conversations, often asking what, not why can be actually more powerful.
And Tasha Urick, my friend, who's just an amazing practitioner and brilliant author and researcher has a TED talk on this, ask what, not why.
Fantastic, recommend watching that.
But really get feedback, develop an environment where you have people who will tell you the truth because the higher up people go, the harder it is for them to get the truth.
You have to work hard.
If there's a graph, it's like the higher up I am, the more I have to work to get honest feedback.
I have to really convince people that it is truly not only safe, I have to incentivize people to give me.
So that means I find people who will give me the truth.
I really listen to it.
I take it in, I process it.
It may not be actually valid for me.
It may be more about them than me, but I take it in and I follow up.
And one of the best ways to start learning how to do that is through just the easy, well, the so-called easy one, which is when people help you or giving praise or how you receive praise.
So start with the positive to get more comfortable with that kind of direct dialogue.
And then you will build a relationship, number one, built on, it's very hard for people to give praise, really, other than, you know, attaboy or, you know, it's like- 

Christine Laperriere:
Like deep, genuine praise.

Matt Stone:
Like genuine, yes.
So you practice, what is it that you appreciate about a particular colleague of yours specifically and why, and what did it mean to you?
And go that second level and say, hey, Christine, I wanna explain to you what it meant when you stepped in for me at that meeting last week.
I noticed that you changed the presentation for the better that you gave.
I gave you that template.
And here's the feedback I got from other people.
And this is what it means to me, and frankly to us at this point where we can move forward.
Like giving that full, and then your job as a leader is to be able to take it and not deflect.

Christine Laperriere:
That's probably equally as hard, yes.

Matt Stone:
So both of us have this role.
So whatever role you're in receiving or giving, go all in on it.
That's an opportunity to get comfortable having direct dialogue that's open and it's vulnerable to do that.
Then when you and I have an issue that we need to resolve between us, guess what foundation we're gonna have.

Christine Laperriere:
Right, rock solid, yep.

Matt Stone:
Rock solid.
I'm still gonna be nervous.
That just shows I care, but I'm gonna be able to either receive that criticism from you, or I'm gonna be able to deliver a message that's hard to deliver, and with more trust that you're gonna know that I'm not attacking you as a person.
That's what we gotta do in every organization, in every community, at the government level is facilitate, number one, people who are willing to do that work into those leadership roles and then providing the incentives and support for them to do that difficult stuff.

Christine Laperriere:
Listen, that was so good that I'm gonna wrap right there.
I think you gave everybody some really amazing feedback there.
That's like a mic drop moment, so I'm not gonna mess with it too much.
That's right, don't drop your mic out.
Don't drop your mic.
Thank you, Matt.
That was amazing and so insightful, and I have a feeling lots of people are gonna be thinking about the what, not the why, thinking a little bit about their own authenticity.
I loved how you talked about shame and shameless leadership.
I think that's a brilliant idea for so many of us to think about.
And then this last but not least, just kind of how you build a foundation of trust so you can have real conversation, real feedback, and kind of what that really means.
So loved it.
Thank you so much, Matt.

Matt Stone:
Thank you.
It's been just a pleasure to spend some time with you today.

Christine Laperriere:
If you wanna hear more, join me at christinlaperrier.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 55
Title: It's okay to be perfect
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Jon Cogan

Christine Laperriere:
Today, I have John on the show.
John reached out, actually, through LinkedIn, and we have started a connection.
So it was pretty exciting to get an opportunity to sit down with him today.
John, introduce yourself really quick to everybody that's listening.

Jon Cogan:
Thanks so much.
Thanks for having me.
I'm John Kogan, a marketing veteran, sad to say at this point, about 20 years on the agency side.
I've recently started my own consultancy, fractional marketing and consultancy practice, just in the last few months.
And it was through that journey getting set up that I reached out to you and glad to have made that connection.
Working closely, I've worked quite a bit in the health care sector.
So working closely now, not just the health care companies, but companies in heavily regulated, highly constrained sectors and really trying to help them kind of bring an innovative and creative lens to their marketing practice, which can often feel kind of boxed in and constrained, but, you know, which often leads to some of the best ideas and best work and trying to bring that to life and tap into that.

Christine Laperriere:
I love it.
I'm sure there's people who definitely would love your help.
I hear that.

Jon Cogan:
Hopefully.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
Well, listen.
OK, so I'm going to dive right in.
Who is the best boss that you've ever worked for?

Jon Cogan:
So as I was just telling you, I'm taking a bit of a cop out approach here.
I think for good reason.
And I'm going to stick with two.
But one was my first boss very beginning of my career and I think was the perfect boss for that moment in my life and my career.
And one was one of the more recent bosses that I had in a more senior leadership position, who I think was the perfect kind of pragmatist and realist to kind of help guide me along and maybe maybe to help quell some of the ego and comfort level that starts to creep in, especially as you get more advanced in your career.
So I'll start with the former.
When I first started, you know, as we all do, it's all about kind of gaining confidence, gaining traction.
And this boss named Dan was incredible at what I'll say, believing in me more than I believe to myself and not just me.
I think a number of people on his team.
And I think it's that belief that really elevated not only my performance, but the performance of the organization.
And I think what he realized at a very practical level was that small failures were easy to recover from.
And so obviously, when you kind of put people out on the limb and let them stretch maybe beyond where they think they're initially capable of stretching to, you're going to have some broken branches and some missteps.
But ultimately, you're going to succeed a lot more than you fail.
And you're going to easily recover from those failures.
And I think learning to kind of operate without fear really came from that, came from him, came from the fact that he not only believed in me when I succeeded, believed in me when I failed, helped me recover from those failures, took the blame for those failures, deflected the credit for the successes.
So it was really just that sense of confidence and comfort.
And I would say limberness.
I always equate things to sports.
You'll see I use a lot of athletic analogies.
And I think when you see the best players, there's a certain limberness and looseness to how they operate on the field or ice or whatever surface versus the players that maybe a little tighter, a little more almost like taut and restrictive in their movement.
And I think the way he operated in conversations with clients and conversations internally with our team, with me, there was just this kind of readiness for any curveball or any situation that might come up.
And I think I learned that that really came from him being comfortable not only in his own skin, but comfortable that any problem can be managed and that it's OK to be imperfect, especially early on in the career.
I came out of business school.
There's a real standard of almost a false ego.
I don't want to say is part of a business school education, but it's often a byproduct at times.
So to kind of get a little bit of humility and a realization that you can succeed and that you can stretch beyond what you think is possible was a huge shot in the arm early on in my early 20s.

Christine Laperriere:
So give me some examples, too, of like, what did that look like?
I mean, I'm sure, you know, he gave you some challenging assignments, but what did he do when you did mess things up?
Like, give me some example.

Jon Cogan:
Well, first of all, he he made himself extremely approachable.
So it almost became a point where I wasn't worried about letting him know if something went wrong.
I was almost excited.
I better talk to Dan about this because he's going to help fix it.
There was never going to be this sense of fear or judgment.
So that that was helpful.
I think there were just a number of situations where if I was, you know, as like a 23, 24 year old at a pre-junior level working behind the scenes, when I was explaining a concept to him or how, you know, this was early 2000s and, you know, we were doing a lot of analytics work on websites that were pretty new at the time, dating myself now.
And as I was kind of explaining to him how, for example, a website was performing based on, you know, the early forms of Google Analytics, at some point he was just like, well, you don't need to explain it to me.
You'll come to the client meeting.
I'll explain it to everybody.
And so that was it was almost like here.
Why go with this broken telephone approach?
You know, you're perfectly capable of articulating this.
You'll join us in the meeting.
So all of a sudden I find myself kind of, I'll say, punching above my weight class, to use another sports analogy, where I get to be in the room and I'm there, you know, I'm there to deliver this one particular point.
But now I'm in the meeting with the full team and I'm getting to, you know, learn by osmosis and pick up what's going on and kind of get to know the dynamic at more senior levels.
And so it was invaluable learning.
And I've said to many people, if there's one piece of advice, it comes from that, which is become an expert on one thing that maybe your boss or your colleagues aren't quite as adept at, because that's going to get you into a lot of rooms that you might otherwise not get into.
But it takes a certain level of vulnerability and humility from that leader as well to accept that and to believe and empower young team members.

Christine Laperriere:
That's a great piece of advice, though, for a new team member.
And just like you said, if you have a good manager who's willing to let you be that expert and let you have a voice.
Now you've got a reason to be in the meeting.

Jon Cogan:
Absolutely.

Christine Laperriere:
And the other leader now that you mentioned.

Jon Cogan:
So he brought me into Tank Worldwide, which is a company I worked for for the better part of the last four years before starting my own practice.
And he's the ultimate pragmatist.
And I've said this to him many times.
Unbelievable balance of compassion, but absolute fearless bluntness that I admire and aspire to.
And what I noticed pretty quickly, because he was based in Montreal and would travel, I was leading the Toronto operation for Tank.
And he would travel to meet with me.
But every time he would come into Toronto, he'd have a lunch and a coffee and several other sessions, it seemed, with various people based in Toronto.
And it was almost was collecting protege that he had so many people that had worked for him over the years in his various roles as a leader that still wanted to stay in touch, kind of tap into his wisdom, his compassion, his encouragement.
And even though I was just getting to know him at the time, I started to realize, wow, that's an impressive quality.
That's a nice barometer that do the people that you have kind of led or worked with or collaborated with still want to keep in touch and keep up that relationship long after your business relationship ends.
And in his case, that was clearly the case.
And it's the case for me with him right now.
He left Tank about a year and a half ago and we've kept in touch.
And he's been incredibly helpful, especially the last several months.
Why is that the case?
I think it's a combination of, like I said, that comfort in his own skin, that vulnerability and humility to be both compassionate and truly caring, but also incredibly direct.
But there was also a certain pragmatism.
But really, that's what it is.
And I'd say realism where he was the first leader to say to me, look, you know, you've got your strengths and you've got your challenge areas or weaknesses or whatever term you want to use.
You don't necessarily have to fix the weaknesses.
You're not going to become great at everything.
You need to just own them and you need to be aware of them and understanding of them and understanding of the impact they have on yourself and on other people so that you can A, surround yourself with people that help to balance that and B, mitigate the impact that they have and just be honest and humble about that.
And so that was the first kind of and again, I'm 43 years old.
I guess I was probably about 40, 41 at the time.
And it was great to hear that because I think you want to either A, try to act like you're perfect in some cases or really try to fix what those flaws are.
And it's freeing in a way to say, well, I don't I'm not probably not going to be able to fix some of these flaws at this point.
But if I can acknowledge them and own them and try to mitigate them, but also just be honest and humble and vulnerable at them, you can continue to operate and you can continue to, again, surround yourself with teammates and leaders that help to bring the best out of one another until you kind of own what you're best at and what maybe you're not as adept at.
It's very hard to do that.
So I think he really brought that out, not just for me, but from the entire organization.
I think that, you know, created quite a bit of, to use a buzzword, synergy within the leadership group, for sure.

Christine Laperriere:
So getting people to really own the strengths and the weaknesses and be fully kind of immersed in how do you orient yourself given what you know, that's that's actually pretty insightful when you think about it, because typically people either heavily focus on strength or they heavily focus on weakness.
And we kind of leave it to the manager a lot of the times to figure out how to find the synergies.
But if you get everybody really involved in that, it would change the way you'd operate.

Jon Cogan:
For sure.
And he led by example.
Like he he fully owned what he was best at and what he wasn't as adept at or experienced with.
I don't know that it would work if he was perfect, you know, or or carried himself that way.
And he certainly didn't.
Anything else you want to share about either of these leaders?
I think the one part that both of them possessed and again, it came from just being genuine and authentic and comfortable and who they were is that and I've used this from vulnerability a couple of times, but that ability, because they had that foundation of genuine care that they established, they could be as direct and cutting and blunt as needed.
They didn't need to sugarcoat because I knew they care and I knew that it was coming from a place of constructive feedback.
We didn't have to waste time sugarcoating and and dancing around some difficult conversations.
It was they were both extremely blunt and sometimes in a way that was jarring, but mostly in a way that was super easy to kind of digest because you knew it was coming from a genuine place.
And so that's something I've really, you know, it's hard to have hard conversations.
The word hard is right in there.
And, you know, I've tried to get better at establishing that foundation up front so that you can, with as little waste as possible, get right into, you know, the difficult conversations that inevitably are going to come up in any, you know, any relationship.

Christine Laperriere:
That's an ongoing theme.
So if you listen to the, you know, 60 some episodes, there is this reoccurring theme that shows up around how people have the right to give difficult feedback.
And it always comes back from a base of the person knew they cared, like they knew they cared about them personally.
And then the difficult feedback was easy to deal with.
And so there's just this reoccurring theme because you hear, you know, leaders give difficult feedback and then they they hurt people in the process and they don't know why.
But if they don't have that base of that person knowing that they care about them and that's the purpose of their one feedback, it's like, you know, that's the game changer.

Jon Cogan:
Yeah.
And there's also nothing worse than finding out in some indirect way that your boss or colleague or leader felt a certain way, but wasn't expressing it if it doesn't come out in a direct way.
And I've had colleagues, peers, one I'm friends with, who I no longer work with.
But we joke about the fact that, you know, we have heated conversations, intense conversations.
But it was because we had the ability to just be blunt with each other.
And ultimately, that led to a good trusting relationship, even if we, you know, got on each other's nerves and aggravated each other at times.
But that's healthy.
And, you know, to a certain extent, I think it was because of that honesty that that could thrive.

Christine Laperriere:
Oh, I think that's amazing.
Now, if you think of some of the bosses that weren't titled your best boss, what comes to mind when you think of some of those people that you've worked with?

Jon Cogan:
Yeah.
So there's a wide spectrum.
I'll go all the way to the far end of it, because there's one in particular that I'm thinking of.

Christine Laperriere:
Who did not win the best boss ever acknowledgement.

Jon Cogan:
No, unfortunately that and, you know, God bless this individual.
But yeah, in my opinion, was not the greatest boss ever.
Well, one, I mean, there's so many things I've already talked about and you just flip it.
So, you know, I talked about deflecting credit and taking blame.
This is someone who deflected all the blame and took all the credit, was always preaching about how she was the hardest working person in the organization, which is really not what your hardworking team wants to hear.
I was at a, you know, I guess a VP level and she was an executive VP level on the senior team.
And it always felt like she saw our team members as almost like checkers pieces, as a as a quantity of hours, as opposed to human beings with a quality of time that we were privileged for them to be offering to us, as opposed to the other way around.
It just felt like, you know, we're worrying about surface level details like when they arrive and leave, which again, we, you know, we talked about, you know, it was a lot of conversations back in our day.
We used to work 60 hour, 70 hour weeks to get the work done.
I said, well, nobody was telling us we had to.
We did that because we had a sense of ownership and pride that was instilled by having great leaders.
And we took that on ourselves to do that when it was necessary.
A, maybe it wasn't healthy to do it as much as we did.
B, we did it because we had a personal sense of pride, not because someone told us we need to be doing that.
And I just felt like and I know she agreed, but I just felt like it didn't manifest in the way she treated people.
Also, I just never felt a sense of curiosity from this person.
And that, I don't know, that maybe is just a personal issue I had.
I always feel like if I ever kind of stop wanting to learn at that point, I don't, you know, probably want to find something else to do because life could get pretty boring.
And then there was one story in particular that really, I think, exemplifies kind of maybe a lack of, I don't know, humility or honesty or authenticity.
And it was we had at the organization, we had decided to eliminate the receptionist role at the time, which was common amongst many organizations.
And I think the person who had been working in that role was doing more office management work, but we still had a reception desk.
We hadn't yet renovated the office space.
So we had this empty reception desk at the front and we had a client coming in for a pitch or an advertising agency.
We had a client coming in and we had one of our junior team members.
She had assigned one of our junior team members to sit at the reception desk to pretend that we had a receptionist there.
And the first on a very practical level, I don't know how that made sense.
If we do win this business, are we going to have to have this person sitting there every time they come in now?

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
Right.
Right.

Jon Cogan:
We weren't really thinking ahead very well.
Many companies don't have a receptionist.
It's OK.
We could also just be kind of standing there to welcome them.
We knew approximately when they were planning to arrive.
But most importantly, well, two parts.
One, think of how humiliating that is for a junior team member who's bringing so much value to the organization and is now told they have to fake being a stand in as a receptionist.
Not that, you know, there's anything wrong with being a receptionist, but that's not the role this person had.
And number two, just the first interaction with this new potential client is a dishonest one is one that we're we're trying to fake something that we're not.
And regardless of how small and minute detail it was, it just felt like, is that really the footing we want to get off on?
And I just I didn't want to be part of that.
And that just spoke volumes to me about a certain level of insecurity that we all we all have to some extent that I felt like crossed the line in many ways.
And so that that's a story that stuck with me as, you know, just don't do that.

Christine Laperriere:
What people, I think, forget sometimes is like, quote unquote, those worst bosses.
It's chuck full of micro, what do you want to call it, microaggressions or micro decisions?
I mean, every once in a while, there's obviously this terrible person that steals money from the business and launders it or something.
Right.
It was like they're kind of like the obvious ones.
They're like, you know, we watch Netflix shows with people and I'm kind of playing the same role.
But but the the not good bosses, the ones that don't turn into like some kind of theater.
It's these micro these little decisions, these little calls that like rub people the wrong way.
And it's not just one.
It's one after another, after another, after another.
And it's like, like you said, it's like when she, you know, pontificate that she's the hardest working person in the room.
Well, then everybody else in the room feels like, are we not hardworking?
Like, you know, but it's like, just like what you said, it's like this list of these micro little tiny minute things where one of those things wouldn't be a game changer.
But each day, another one and another one and another one starts to really send that message home.
And that example about, you know, the receptionist role.
Like, again, it's not game changing, but it just feels so inauthentic that you just pair that up with more inauthenticity.
That's disengaging.

Jon Cogan:
100 percent agree.
There was also we had a great employee leave the company, which was unfortunate.
We had a great opportunity elsewhere.
And I don't know, two, three months later, this was someone who was still a friend of mine.
Two, three months later, she told me she was pregnant.
So I happened to be talking to this boss and said, oh, by the way, great news.
So and so is pregnant.
And her immediate reaction was bullet dodged.
And I said, well, I was thinking more isn't that nice.
Congratulations on a human level.
You know, her thought immediately went to, well, at least we don't have to deal with the whole mat leave situation, etc.
And which is, again, as a practical matter, something that, you know, when you're in the advertising world and the majority of your team members are 25 to 40 some odd.
The majority, you know, more than 50 percent tend to be female.
You're going to be dealing with that.
But for that to be the immediate reaction as opposed to, oh, isn't that amazing?
It was striking to me.
So another I don't want to pile on, but that was another example.
Microaggression, as you said, it is.

Christine Laperriere:
It's those little examples, though, where you just go, wow, you know, you really do see us as hours logged and not as humans that are we have more dimension to us.
Right.

Jon Cogan:
That was my perception of it.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, that's the way it lands with you.
Right.
Since I'm in the business of leadership development, I'm always getting challenged with what's the return on investment for working for a great boss versus a not great boss.
And so people always want numbers and cents.
And that's actually very hard to do.
But I'm curious, like if I ask you, what's the return on investment for a business to have a best boss versus a not best boss?
What do you think?

Jon Cogan:
Well, I think like we talked about, people aren't checkers pieces and they're not, you know, just a quantity of hours.
And I think the best bosses bring out the best quality in those people for the obvious point.
But so from an effect, I think there's an effectiveness element to it and an efficiency element from an effectiveness standpoint.
I think both bosses I alluded to and there's others other great ones along the way.
I felt like every time I have a conversation with them, I felt feeling better about myself and about the situation.
And I feel like I performed at a higher level, let's say 110 percent versus 90 percent because of their belief in me and their pragmatism and helping to solve problems.
And so you multiply that by all the people in the organizations, both at leadership levels and all the way across.
You know, obviously, you're obviously getting a high performing group of people.
So that, you know, there's the obvious effectiveness angle.
From an efficiency standpoint, I remember one example when the first boss I alluded to, Dan, became the president of the organization.
At one point, the first kind of all staff meeting he had, he said, Look, I'm asking everyone here and all at all levels to question everything we're doing, not in a disrespectful way and not in a wasteful way, but to just be willing to question every process, every step, every every operation, because we don't have visibility to everything that everybody does every day, but you do.
So question if you don't feel it makes sense, question it politely and respectfully.
You might be told, oh, this is why we're doing it.
We're going to continue to do it.
But we may find two, three, four processes, operational details that we can fix because of those questions.
Sure enough, we did.
And we, in the span of maybe two or three months, probably cut about 10% from our cost base, just from finding efficiencies by just empowering everybody to feel a sense of ownership.
There was a certain approachability now in that president's chair where anybody felt, OK, I can go and talk directly about this small, minute problem.
Again, most of them were not major factors, but there were two or three that led to significant cost savings.
So from a pure business sense, just that sense of empowerment increased profitability for the company right away.
And so that's, I think, one practical example where just being open and approachable makes a huge difference.

Christine Laperriere:
That's a great example.
Those are the impact of everybody operating at their A game and being fully transparent when they do see something that doesn't make sense.
There's huge value in that.
It's just hard to convince people what the difference is.
So I think that's great.
Now, knowing that I've got an audience of leaders out there that are aspiring to be best bosses or great bosses, what would be some of your words of wisdom to them just as we wrap this up?

Jon Cogan:
I think, going back to a lot of the points, I think certainly one thing is always, and this is a pet peeve of mine, when people use the word I and my a lot versus we and our.
I think no matter who actually took care of a certain task, just always speaking in we and our is a huge way to set the right tone for organizational or team culture.
So that's a little detail.
Like I talked about earlier, just believing in people, giving them a chance, being comfortable enough that if they do have a misstep or a quote unquote failure, that sometimes with clients or others, the recovering from that is actually more positively impactful than just swimming along as if everything's perfect.
So being okay with that and letting people kind of go out on a limb and take a chance because it's gonna work wonders long-term to elevate that individual.
I think owning strengths and weaknesses that you talked about, being okay with being imperfect is super important, not having to pretend that everything's perfect and being vulnerable and recognizing that your style may not mesh with everybody on your team as well as others.
And so making sure you're still creating a sense of comfort and openness to that because I've had that myself.
I tend to be a little more improvisational, maybe a little less structured, which can be a tremendous strength, but with certain people, that also creates a sense of discomfort because of that missing maybe structure or parameter.
And so making sure you can provide that when it's needed, but also being open to the fact that that's gonna be a source of tension.
I think it's important.
You're not gonna be able to be perfect, but just being humble enough to proactively manage those sources of tension I think is important.
I think it's important not to feel like you're the smartest person in the room.
I think that you're not surrounding yourself with the right people if they don't know more than you do in most cases.
You wanna bring people in that are smarter than you, that you can learn from.
And it may not be that they're smarter or more capable in every aspect of a job or business, but at least in some, if not all, think if you're not learning from the people around you in all directions, that's a problem.
And there's a certain level of humility that's I think required.
And then lastly, kind of reiterating an earlier point, I think establishing that foundation of genuine care, because that allows you to then have more blunt and direct conversations that are helpful to both sides that don't become personal in a way that they shouldn't.
That it could be about the work, not about the human relationship.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
John, thank you so much for taking the time to let me interview you today.
This was awesome.

Jon Cogan:
Thank you so much.
Appreciate you having me.

Christine Laperriere:
If you wanna hear more, join me at christinelaperriere.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 56
Title: The best antidote to impostor syndrome
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Monica Stewart

Christine Laperriere:
And today we have Monica Stewart on the show and I'm excited to talk to her cause she reached out to us on LinkedIn with a particular angle on her experience of a best boss.
So Monica, thank you so much for coming on the show.

Monica Stewart:
Hey Christine, thank you so much for having me.
Great to be here.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
And then please introduce yourself just for everybody listening.

Monica Stewart:
Yeah, definitely.
So my name is Monica Stewart.
I'm the founder and CEO of Five Limes Consulting.
And what we do is we work with startup founders, CEOs and sales leaders to help them grow their business in a meaningful and sustainable way.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
That sounds like very interesting work.

Monica Stewart:
Yeah, it is.

Christine Laperriere:
So now I'm gonna just dive in.
Tell us who's your best boss ever and why.

Monica Stewart:
So when I saw your post on LinkedIn, the first person that came to mind right away was the first boss that I ever had besides my dad, who was the first person that ever hired me for a sales job and the first person that hired me out of college.
His name was Jared Rose.
At the time I didn't even wanna be in sales.
I graduated with a political science degree.
Everyone was telling me I should go to law school.
I didn't wanna do that.
I didn't really know what I wanted to do.
But what I did know is that I did not want to be an executive assistant, which is what every recruiter that I spoke with tried to get me to interview for.
They were like, what industry do you wanna work in?
Okay, great.
Let's try to get you an executive assistant role.
And I was like, what is this, the 70s?
That is a little offensive actually.
It actually was.
And I mean, just so that everyone is aware, this was like the mid 2000s.
So yeah, I mean, it's a little bit better now, but yeah, it's been slow going.
So, you know, even at the age of like 21, I was like, yeah, that's never gonna take me where I wanna go.
So I was like looking around and I found this conference company and I interviewed with Jared.
I was the first person that he hired to build this division that he was building inside the company.
And we just, we got along.
He had the same major in school.
We vibed and I convinced him to hire me.
And I think that what he did that was so effective.
And I think that it specifically worked for like someone with my personality is he gave me some very basic tools.
Like the things that he told me to do were the things, I mean, a lot of the things that like I still teach teams in sales today.
And then just for some context, it was a conference company that did institutional investment education events.
And my job was to cold call and email, like the biggest institutional investors in the world, like the people that run like the AP funds in Sweden or like the BP pension fund or something, and then get them to come to our events or ideally like kind of help us develop the events.
So it was pretty intimidating and I didn't really have a lot to go on.
It was basically like make a hundred cold calls between the hours of 7 a.m.
and like 1 p.m.
when European hours are over.
Jared sat about five feet away from me.
He made no calls.
So it was basically just like me.
Sitting on a phone, making cold calls.
Making cold calls.
No one else is in the office yet.
Like everyone can hear everything that I'm saying.
And I think that what he told me is he was like, okay, he's like, you know, you do this and then a week later you follow up again and then you do that like five more times.
Like it was just very like basic, not overly complicated, just sort of like this is how you run this process.
And then he gave me a framework for how to think about those conversations.
And then he gave me a lot of freedom.
So the framework was basically like, do whatever you can that you think will work.
And I think that I had, I didn't even know enough to be intimidated at that age.
So I just sort of jumped right in.
And so I ended up doing really well really quickly.
And within a couple of weeks, he was like, I think he was sort of like, okay, she's gonna work out.
You know, like I'm not gonna like, like she's gonna like keep this job.
I'm gonna invest in her more.
So he said, okay, you're gonna come to the next event that we're having, which was this conference in Lisbon, Portugal.
So I'm like, oh my gosh, okay, like get my passport renewed really quick.
Fly to Lisbon, we spend a day like setting up.
And then it's the night before the conference is starting.
And I'm like, okay, like what's the plan?
And so I asked him if he had a couple of minutes and I went to his hotel room with my little notebook and I was like, so what do you want me to like do here?
You know, like, do you want me to sit in the sessions and learn about all of the content?
Do you want me to help like run logistics and check people in, like what's the goal?
And he was like, oh, that's right.
You've never done this before, sorry.
I just invited you, you know, as a guest.
Yeah, he's like, oh yeah, I forgot you didn't know about, you didn't know how this works yet.
He gave me like still one of the best pieces of advice that I've ever gotten, which was, he was like, look, basically all I want you to do is just try and make connections with people because ultimately the reason that you're here is to take over like a lot of my relationships so that I can keep building this business.
And so, you know, everybody here, I know personally pretty much, but I want them to know you.
So just talk to people.
And then at the end of the event, you can tell me who you think you made a good connection with.
And then I'll tell you which of those you can take over as your clients.
And I was like, cool.
And he's like, there's just one thing that you need to remember, which is don't try to impress anyone because you can't, you know?
Like you just graduated from college.
These guys are, they're in their 50s.
They're highly educated.
They've been everywhere.
They manage trillions of euros.
Like it's just no, and he said it in a way that it was not disempowering at all.
It was actually extremely empowering because it took all of this pressure off and it wasn't in any way a put down.
It was just like, it was honest, you know?
And it was just like, look, like this is what it is.
Like don't try to impress anyone because you can't.
Just try to connect with people.
Just talk to them.
And that just resonated with me so strongly.
And I think it was also what I wanted to do anyway, but I'm like, you know, it's like, is it going to be enough?
And it was the best, it's probably like the best antidote to imposter syndrome that I can think of, you know?

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
It's exactly what I'm thinking the whole time.
How many of us feel terrified in a situation like that?
I mean, I would even like just the heads of multiple financial institutions or whatever.
I'd be very nervous, right?

Monica Stewart:
Totally.

Christine Laperriere:
What a great piece of advice.

Monica Stewart:
It really was.
And it was, you know, there's some situations I think in which you do really have to psych yourself up and be like, yes, like I own this and I am that person.
But I think there's so many situations in life where you're like, I'm not.
Like the only thing that I have to offer here is my attention.
And that's in and of itself extremely powerful.
So that's what I did.
And then I had a great time and the conference was great and I made a bunch of friends.
And then I just sort of continued doing that.
And then I think like once we sort of started to develop some trust, the other thing that was so transformational about that experience is that he gave me a lot of freedom, which I think was a function of just, I think I was maybe the first person that he had ever managed.
And he was just sort of like, well, she's doing her job.
Like she's doing well.
So I'll just let her keep doing that.
Like, great, that's why I hired her so that I can go do other things.
Like, and then he sort of would give me as much guidance as I needed, but he also gave me a ton of freedom.
So, and with that, I did like crazy things.
Like by the end of that job, I convinced the company to organize a conference in Iceland because I just really wanted to go to Iceland.
And I put together.

Christine Laperriere:
So I really wanted to go to Iceland.

Monica Stewart:
That's where we should do it.
So I made an event there.
Like I created the whole program.
I got all the speakers.
It was a really successful event.
It actually ended up being right before, like a month before the 2008 financial crash, which if you followed anything about, yeah, banking at that time, Iceland's economy as a country was extremely involved in.
So at the last minute, like the minister of finance, they found out about my event because I mean, obviously like Iceland is a tiny country and the minister of finance of Iceland like called us and asked if he could come and speak.
And then the president of the country hosted a reception for us at his house.

Christine Laperriere:
Wow.
Yeah.
How often do you hear that?

Monica Stewart:
Never, it was so cool.

Christine Laperriere:
Oh, that is so cool.

Monica Stewart:
Yeah.
And it's, it was just like an extremely such the opposite experience of being someone's executive assistant.

Christine Laperriere:
Right, right.

Monica Stewart:
That's best career decision ever.
And I think it really, it allowed me to grow really fast in a really short period of time.
And I think for somebody coming right out of school, it changed the way that I saw myself as a professional in an irreversible way.

Christine Laperriere:
That's amazing.
Amazing.
That is a great story.
Anything else you wanna add to that?

Monica Stewart:
The thing is, Christine, is when I was kind of putting together my thoughts on this, it also made me think about how since that time, the way that most sales organizations are run has changed completely.
So even for a small company like that, right now there would be like probably three or four different roles and I would have to start in one of those roles.
And I do have a lot of concern for people that are entering sales or have in the last like five years that they're just not getting those opportunities anymore.
I saw a post on LinkedIn the other day where, or I believe it was maybe in Modern Sales Pros, where somebody was asking if they should allow an SDR to go to a big in-person client meeting that they had set up.
And this is like a major enterprise sale.
So this person probably spent like a couple of months working with like 10 different contacts to get everybody in the same room.
And they were doing great.
They were hitting all their numbers.
They were crushing their role.
And they were wondering if they should invite them to go and meet the client in person and go along with the sales team.
And it was like a real debate, like more than half of the people in the conversation were saying no.
And it's like, well, how do you expect people to see a career path if they do everything right and they're doing everything that you're asking them to do and actually probably exceeding expectations and you don't even give them the chance to like get in the room.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, no, that's sad actually.

Monica Stewart:
It's really sad.
Yeah.
And then maybe in two years that person is gonna be promoted to an account executive and then all of a sudden they're gonna be expected to flip a switch and just know how to do that innately.
Like I think that those sort of like quantum growth opportunities can be so transformational for people.
And I think that one of the things that's really been lost in what predictable revenue taught us and kind of the assembly line model that most sales orgs are running today is that people don't get those opportunities as much.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, they're not getting creative enough with how they manage the process.

Monica Stewart:
Yeah, exactly.

Christine Laperriere:
So do you have any other leaders that come to mind when you think of your best boss?

Monica Stewart:
I do.
So I always tend to think of things in threes.
I don't know why it just, my brain just works that way.
So that was the first person that I ever worked for.
And then the second person would be actually the last person that I ever worked for, which was Jake, who's the CEO of Scaled Consulting that I was at for a couple of years before I went off and recommitted to my own practice.
So after I started with Jared, then I embarked on this whole 15-year-long sales career.
I started working in B2B SaaS.
I started training the teams that I worked on.
Then I started being a sales leader.
And then I just went into consulting and I started helping other companies build their sales teams.
And I actually went into consulting before I worked with Scaled.
So I did it on my own and then I was with them and now I'm back with my own practice again.
And I think at that time, that job was really my dream job.
It was the culmination of everything that I had been working really hard for, for many, many years, just really doing the whole startup hustle thing, 10 to 16-hour days, pushing really, really hard, constantly redefining what my notions of success were.
And for me, working for Scaled was the culmination of all of that because in my mind, I didn't want to be tied to working for just one company.
I wanted to be able to help as many different teams and as many different founders as possible.
So to me, I saw that as the best way to do that.
And I was really excited about also learning from Jake because he has a ton of experience.
He's an incredible sales leader.
And the way that the whole thing started is they actually asked me to come and work for them as a consultant because they had a bunch of new projects that they thought that I would be really good on.
And I accepted that on the condition that I could have a desk in their office in SoHo because I live nearby and I really don't like to work from home.
And I really just wanted to be able to come into the office and just hear Jake talk on the phone every day because I thought that I would learn a lot from that.
And then after about a month and a half of this, they were like, why don't you just work here?
Why don't you just help us run this company?
And so at first I was like, oh my gosh, yes.
And then I was like, man, I just failed at not working for someone else again.
That was supposed to be the whole point, but I thought, okay, I'm gonna learn a lot from this experience.
And I think that what that experience was, it was like the pressure that forms a diamond.
It was probably the most intense job that I've ever had.
And now I would never say yes to that type of environment, which was also a big learning for me is that that's actually not something that I want to create in my life.
And it's not the way that I ever want to run my own business.
But I think at the time, it was probably the only thing that I would have paid attention to because I had just gone through this run of working at companies where I was so valuable to them that they didn't really challenge me on things that I probably needed to be challenged on because I was getting results.
And this is unfortunately something that happens to a lot of people and a lot of salespeople and sales leaders that are really good at their jobs.
And this is one of the reasons that the industry has such a bad reputation is so many people are allowed to form bad work habits and toxic patterns of relating with people because no one calls them out on it.
I think you said in one of your other podcasts, the broccoli in your teeth thing, there are very few people who will really have that conversation with you because they don't want to disrupt all of the progress that you're making and all of the things that you're doing for the company.
And for me, I had just come off of a run of the last three companies that I worked at all being successfully acquired, which I contributed a lot to like two of those wouldn't have happened if it weren't for me.
One of them I can't take as much credit for because that was Trello and they were already well on their way.
But it's like, if you're working at a startup and your boss is like almost the same age as you, like you just don't get that like structure.
I had developed a structure that worked for myself, but I needed to like level that up.
And that's what working at Scaled really did for me.
What were your bad habits, can I ask?
Sure, yeah.
So my bad habits were always being super last minute for things because I knew that I could just, I could make it work.
Like I could just show up and talk and be brilliant and like run the presentation and just like wing it.
My other bad habits were overthinking things that I was doing.
I am a huge perfectionist and have a lot of tendencies as a procrastinator, like a lot of people do.
It was hard for me to get in the habit of just like forcing myself to ship things in small iteration.
That was definitely something that I learned.
And then I would also say like faster communication cycles.
I would delay difficult conversations because I wanted to think about the right way to do it, or I would always just prioritize something else first.

Christine Laperriere:
Got it, yeah.
And so now you're working for Jake and you're in this environment and these bad habits, they're not gonna give you the same latitude, I guess.

Monica Stewart:
Yeah, 100%.
The vibe at the time was very like, and I think also because I was on the leadership team, it was like everything, like my whole life was work basically.
All of my personality, my personal habits, what I did outside of work, all of it was sort of accessible, which is one of the things that I wouldn't say yes to now.
Like I would never now do like work calls at 8 p.m.
or 10 p.m.
for example.
I was traveling like at least 25% of the time and I was like, oh, sure, that's fine.
I'll just like fly back from Boston at 10 p.m.
and then the next morning get on a train at 5 a.m.
to like go see this client here.
Like it was not work.
There was no work-life balance at all.
So that was the part that like ultimately kind of led me away from it.
But in kind of the journey of getting there, I had to face a lot of the bad habits that I had and also just learn how to work with people in a way that I had never had to do before because I was managing our consulting practice, which meant that I was interfacing with like maybe 30 to 40 consultants and then all of our clients all at the same time.
So it was like this amazing like black belt bootcamp crash course in like incredible diplomacy and negotiation skills and also like a lot of very, very, very directed, I would say tactical empathy.
So the skills that you learn when you're like learning how to be a really great salesperson, which is like figuring out what might go wrong in any given situation, understanding what it is that people need from you and how the best way is to deliver that to them and how to get people to like sort of align towards a common goal and then like push them towards the outcome that you want, which is something that you do in the sales process over and over.
That was pretty much what I did every day with like 30 people that were not full-time employees and were all run ahead their own businesses and their own lives and their own styles.
And then any number of startup founders who are also very chaotic.
And it was just like this constant like making all of those pieces fit together and work together.

Christine Laperriere:
Right, and it sounds intense.
So then how did Jake, tell me a little bit more about how did he influence the way that you, pressure that forms into a diamond, right?
So it sounds like it was an amazing experience for you all the same, even if it was chaotic and intense.
Like tell me a little bit more about how Jake influenced that.

Monica Stewart:
I would say that like those, like those broccoli in your teeth conversations, he probably has those conversations like 10 times a day with different people.
It's like probably one of his favorite things to do, which.

Christine Laperriere:
You're like, thanks.

Monica Stewart:
Yeah, exactly.
And it's, I mean, it's a real gift because it's not, you know, that is not an easy thing to do for people.
And it must take an incredible amount of energy to even pay that much attention to so many people all the time.
So that the information was really valuable.
But I think that like for me, just to like sort of drop my ego a little bit and be able to hear that was also really, really, really valuable because sometimes you don't want to.
Like if sometimes, like if that happens to you, like once you're like, wow, amazing.
Thank you so much.
And if it happens to you, like once every couple of months, you're like, oh, this is great.
I'm growing so much.
If it happens to you like every day, sometimes you're just like, I know, but like just give me a minute, you know?
So it was like that level of performance that I hadn't really encountered anywhere before.
And a lot of people really struggled with it.
Like a lot of people didn't actually do well under that environment.
And that's why I say, I think it was like really what I needed at the time, but not something that I would choose again.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
That's really interesting though.
It speaks to a value of almost like a pressure cooker type of environment and all of us love that short-term stretch, but the burnout that comes from that.

Monica Stewart:
Totally.
And that's exactly what happened is I got, I ended up getting really burned out.
And at the same time that I was kind of going through that journey and like I really committed myself there.
And for a while I was like, this is exactly what I wanted.
I mean, even to the point where when I was working at Hanjiva, it's now called S&P Global Market Intelligence.
I would ride a city bike up Lafayette street through SoHo to get to that office.
And I would ride by this particular building and there was a La Cologne coffee shop downstairs.
And I would be going past there at like, 8.15 or something.
And I would see all of these like really cool SoHo people getting coffee at La Cologne, just hanging out in the sunshine like about, and I'm like, man, that would be so nice.
They probably work like right here and they're just gonna stroll over to their office now.
Meanwhile, I was like, I'm gonna like hop onto a Zoom call and that's gonna be the rest of my day.
And there's just something about like that coffee shop and that building.
And that is the building that the scaled offices were in.
Interesting.
Then I was one of those people, I walked to work, I was there getting my cortado, wearing cool outfit, like the whole thing, like everything that I envisioned is like what that was.
I loved my clients.
I loved the job.
I loved the freedom.
I loved working for a small company.
I loved the traveling for a while.
And then kind of like, I think a pressure cooker is a good analogy because eventually the pressure sort of like pushed me out of that into a new phase in my life where during that time, I was also kind of going through like some personal reviews and kind of thinking about like what I wanted the direction of my life to be.
And I started to realize that there was some real friction between that and like what my job was.
And part of it, I think was actually like that level of like personal scrutiny and like performance expectation eventually started to conflict with like new ideas of myself that I was forming.
So I remember like there was one time that we were having dinner with the other partner and some of our consultants.
And we were talking about a big training rollout that we were gonna do for one of our biggest clients later that year that was sort of like an all hands on deck type of situation.
And I think like the other partner was going to, he was going to like the south of France on vacation with his wife for a couple of weeks that summer.
And I was like, well, you know, if we're gonna be doing one of the cohorts around August, don't count me in for that because I'm gonna be out for two weeks in August because I'm going to Burning Man.
And Jake was just like, when are you gonna grow up?
And I was like, excuse me?
And it like, in that moment, I was sort of like, whoa, wait, hold on.
Like this guy is gonna go drink ros on the beach in the south of France for two weeks.
And I'm gonna go drink ros at Burning Man.
Like what's the difference, you know?
And there were just some things like that where I sort of started to be like, okay, there's some boundaries to draw here between like, these are the things that I wanna take from this situation and then these are the things that I'm not willing to, that are not malleable for me.

Christine Laperriere:
This is the line.
There is a line that's getting crossed.

Monica Stewart:
Yeah.
And I think it was really helpful for me to like have the experience of being able to relax a lot of my boundaries and like let in a lot of direction and a lot of advice because I had never felt like I had that much to learn from someone that I worked for before.
And then once I had sort of started to complete that cycle, then I started to decide like where my new boundaries were going to be.
And then that was one of the things that kind of led me to being like, okay, I think that like I've completed this chapter.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, you're complete.
You got a lot from the experience and now it's time for you to be the next version of you.

Monica Stewart:
Right, exactly.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, that makes sense to me.
So then on that note, tell us a little bit about those who were not or maybe one that comes to mind that is not your best boss ever.

Monica Stewart:
Yeah.
So that was the next, it's almost like a video game, right?
Like, you know, like the end of a video game, you face like the final boss and then like you graduate.
So the hardest one is yourself and that was kind of the outcome of my experience at Scaled is it led me to saying yes to myself in some really important ways that kind of brought me back onto the path of realizing that I actually don't really want to work for anyone else and I really needed to commit to building a business on my own.
So that was something that I thought wouldn't be a huge transition for me because I had always been really self-directed and I've always kind of created my own job wherever I am, like I'll be hired.
They're like, okay, you're our third AE hire.
And I'm like, you know what this company needs an enterprise sales business.
Like, I'm just gonna go do that.
So I felt like I, you know, and my parents are entrepreneurs and the whole thing.
And then I started to start to carve out space to start to work on like my own projects.
And I ran into every single tendency that can hold you back in rapid succession.
Like starting with like procrastination, like I would sit down to do something and then I would be like, well, wait, what am I supposed to even be doing during this time?
And like, wait, where's my notes?
And da, da, da, da.
And then I'm like, my God, I would never show up for a meeting with somebody else like this.
Like, why am I doing this, you know, for myself?
And then that sort of led to, you know, the second part where it's sort of like, well, whatever, like you're not gonna be able to do a job at this right now.
So just go do something else anyway.
And then feeling really bad at myself because I wasn't being productive enough.
And then realizing that I was being the overbearing boss that I was trying to get away from to myself.
And that I still had that voice in my head that was like, you know, what are you doing?
You're never going to be successful.
Like, this is ridiculous.
And then I'm like, wait a minute, like, who am I performing for?
And so that was the most interesting part of it was realizing that I still had in my head, like the voice of everybody that I've ever worked for.
And it was like this weird invisible Greek chorus around me in my office by myself.

Christine Laperriere:
Yes, I understand all of that.
Really?
I felt that when I went on my own and started my own business in 2008, I had the same, quite a few years of imposter syndrome meets like every negative person that you've ever encountered is like whispering in your ear all day.

Monica Stewart:
Yeah.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah.

Monica Stewart:
And I think it's like, we don't have a lot of models for positive motivation and like positive self-management.
There's a lot of really bad models for that.
And I think that in the absence of another framework, your brain just sort of defaults to whatever has worked for you in the past, even if what that was, was actually not really that healthy.
Like there's a lot of things that can be effective that are actually not really good in the long-term.

Christine Laperriere:
Calling yourselves names and yeah, beating up on yourself and going on about what a total useless loser you are.
And setting like- Which has got no bearing.
It's not the helpful way to get a business off the ground, but- 

Monica Stewart:
It's not the helpful way to get a business off the ground.
I would never manage anyone else like that.
Like the way that I work with other people is so different from the way that I work with myself.
It's crazy.
Also setting completely unrealistic expectations.
It took me three years to realize that I wasn't scheduling lunch breaks for myself and my calendar.
I'll just block off my whole day, not necessarily with meetings, but with times that I'm supposed to be doing things.
And then I was like, wait, why am I constantly running late for the schedule that I set for myself?
And I'm like, oh, cause I might need to, I don't know, go walk outside and get a coffee or maybe make a sandwich or something like that.
And like, that's okay.
Or if I wanted to, I could even just go for a walk for 40 minutes for no reason, because that's why I work for myself.

Christine Laperriere:
Wow.
You are speaking to the choir right now.
I was as a, yes.
I mean, I go through this, by the way, it doesn't really ever go entirely away.

Monica Stewart:
Right, right.

Christine Laperriere:
Just has different migrating forms, right?
But to your exact point, I have a very hard, if it's between the hours of nine and five, I literally have the hardest time stepping away from my own desk.

Monica Stewart:
Yeah, totally.

Christine Laperriere:
It's just my brain is like, this is gonna be failure.
Like, here you go.

Monica Stewart:
Like, this is how it happens.
Yeah, totally.

Christine Laperriere:
It's like one day, you go take the dog for the walk, the next day you're laying on the couch, eating chips, watching reruns and you just completely fail.

Monica Stewart:
Right, and then your life is over.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, and I have no idea why.
I mean, it's good to have a work ethic, but there is definitely, I, to your point, at the start of COVID had to, after burning myself out, had to give myself the sit down and the tough talk about scheduling lunch.
So if you see my calendar right now, there's like a lunch block on every day.
And it's just very funny because I had to come back to like, why can I not take an hour, go take 20 minutes to chop up a salad and eat healthy and like, I'm not, you know what I mean?
I'm not on the road.
I don't need to have fast food.
Like what is the, why the rush?
What is the rush?
Especially when it's the schedule that you created that you have a hard time keeping up with.
You're like, then maybe I need to do something different.

Monica Stewart:
Right.

Christine Laperriere:
I totally get all of it.

Monica Stewart:
Because I am creating all of this.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, I totally get it.

Monica Stewart:
I do think that there's this thing, which is like the other journey where, you know, you have, I don't know if you do, I have a lot of anxiety that if I'm not doing something, then like nothing is going to be happening in my business, which was then also an invitation to be like, oh, well like I should change that, you know, because that's not really a long-term strategy.
So all of these learnings have been really eyeopening.
And then the other, I think the other part about it is it's also given me like so much more empathy and like even like strengthened my resolve for why I do what I do.
Because the reason that I do what I do is I really, I just have such a soft spot for people that start their own businesses, because I've worked in them, you know?
And I know how hard it is.
And like I've seen, you know, I've been with companies that have gone from like, you know, they're like 10 or 20 employees to like almost a hundred and like huge success.
And seeing what that meant for everybody there, especially the people that were there from the beginning on a professional financial level, but also just on a personal level, is like still some of my happiest like moments in life.
Like that is just so freaking rewarding for me.
And I think that now it also like has given me an even deeper level of empathy, because I've known for a long time that like, if you have a company and like less than a hundred people up until that size, like the way that your company works and the personality of your organization is literally you, just like spread onto that organization.
And I see like that reflected in myself as well.
And I think like having a greater personal experience of it has also helped to make me better at what I do, because it's easier for me to see it in other people too.

Christine Laperriere:
Right, you've gotten more perspective because you're now in multiple seats of it.

Monica Stewart:
Exactly, because it's like all these learnings, you know, like that you need to schedule time for all the things you need to do in a day, including like eating and that, you know, you need to make the things that you do scalable and all of that.
This is like advice that of course, like I would give to anybody else, but it's also amazing how no matter how much you know and how much experience you have, somehow you always still have to go through all of the steps yourself anyway.

Christine Laperriere:
Trust me, I have, I am speaking to the converted.
I get that completely.
So that is amazing.
So just kind of as we're starting to wrap, I'm curious, you know that there's leaders that are listening to this.
They're on the hunt for becoming, or maybe they already are best bosses and they're always looking for fresh ways.
What would be some of the tips that you would give them?

Monica Stewart:
Oh man, there's two books that I would recommend that have helped me immensely.
One is the Upper Limit Problem by Gay Hendrix.

Christine Laperriere:
Oh, I like that one.

Monica Stewart:
It's really good.
He has some podcasts too, if you don't want to read the whole book.
There's another one.
It's a book that a friend of mine gave me that I've probably given out like six copies to people so far, which is called The Diamond Cutter.
I can't remember the name of the author, but it's the best explanation of like super practical application of Buddhist principles that I've ever come across.
And it's cool because the name refers to the Diamond Cutter Sutra in Buddhism, but it's also about a literal diamond importing company that these Buddhist monks run.
It's just a very, very, very cool book.
It's not like fluffy at all.
It has like extremely practical, like practices that you should do.

Christine Laperriere:
I will be Amazoning that as soon as we're off the call.

Monica Stewart:
It's super good.
And The Upper Limit Problem is a fantastic book.
So you've got one great referral that I know of and now I'm looking forward to reading the other one.
Good, I think you'll really like it.
And then the other thing that I would say is like, always be willing and maybe like just make some time to do this once a month or once a quarter if once a month is not feasible, like to sit down and come back to your core principles of like, what are your goals that you want to achieve in your business?
But then also, why did you start your business and how is that being reflected in your life?
And then be willing to just completely throw everything out.
I am a big fan of calendar blocking and scheduling all the time for the things that you need to do, but I'll go back and redo my calendar like once a month because I'll realize like, I don't really need this time or there's this other thing that I'm doing that I haven't been making time for.
I actually don't want to go on LinkedIn in the morning because I don't want to look at anything on the internet in the morning until I've done my deep thinking or whatever it is.
So I would say that it's sort of like a strong opinion, loosely held approach to managing your life.
Like try something, go for it, see how it works and then be willing to just completely try something else.
Another thing that's influenced me a lot is the one thing by Gary Keller.
And I think that this is so, so, so powerful for people that are in leadership or that are on the journey of leading themselves, which is like, it's okay to not do all of the things all of the time.
In fact, you can't.
Like it's totally fine for a while to just be like, I'm gonna be really selfish with my business right now and I'm just gonna do that and I'm not available for people.
And like maybe I will see, I'll have like two social things like a month and like that's it.
And I'm happy with that.
I'm gonna be a hermit for a while because I really wanna go far in this part of my business.
And then sometimes it's okay to just sort of like coast and be like, you know what?
I really need to take care of myself right now and I'm gonna do all the things that need to do and I'm gonna show up to the meetings and do the thing, but I'm not really trying to like push forward a lot on my business right now because I need to take care of myself more.
It's okay to not be like making progress on all fronts all the time.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
I love that.
I just think that's interesting because I wrote a book called Too Busy to Be Happy and it's really this concept of work-life wisdom and I keep saying work-life wisdom to me is so much different than work-life balance.

Monica Stewart:
Yeah.

Christine Laperriere:
Work-life wisdom is like knowing what you need.
It's like that boundary, but it is a migration and it's changing and it's not fixed.
So your work-life wisdom might look very different than mine.
And that's- That's so true.
You know, taking out this thought of balance, which almost insinuates 50-50 right off the bat and to your idea, it's like, it doesn't, I think that the problem is so much of us feel like we're failing in this work-life balance thing, but if you come back to this idea of work-life wisdom, which is I'm very much like you where it's like I kind of power hard in the fall, I power hard in the spring, but I do like a big break at the Christmas and a big break in August, like, and I recoup, like I just, but it's very intentional because I just have learned that that's my work-life wisdom.
Like I need, I can turbo power for about eight months out of the year.
And then I very instinctively do it knowing that there is a day when I'm probably gonna do very little work.
Like, you know, August is a month that I take it very light, you know, and lots of times for hiking, lots of time for doing the stuff that I like to do, you know, kids, you know, I've got kids, it's ice cream cones and melty faces and all that, but I want that.
Like, I don't wanna think that I missed that, you know?
And so those are super important times for me to do the things that are, you know, so it's just interesting when you say that to me, it's screaming, you're finding that work-life wisdom that works for you, where sometimes you're tipped in and sometimes you're tipped back a little bit.

Monica Stewart:
It's kind of like making deposits in like different areas of your life that you can like then cash in later.
Like you're making like, you know, career deposits.
And then in August, you're like, cool, I already did all that work and now that's just carrying me.
And then you get to make like emotional deposit for yourself and for your relationship with your family.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, that's great.
Listen, Monica, this was amazing.
Thank you so much for taking the time to talk to us today.
And like I said, thank you, thank you.

Monica Stewart:
Thank you, Christina.
It was really fun.

Christine Laperriere:
If you want to hear more, join me at christinlaperrier.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 57
Title: Wisdom from Joe
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Brent Currie

Christine Laperriere:
Today, I have Brent Curry on the show.
I'm very excited to share his story with you.
He was helping me facilitate a program that we lead with Scotiabank, and he started telling a story about a best boss that he had.
And I was so excited.
I had to reach out and ask him if he would consider sharing it on this show.
So, Brent, nice to see you.
Thanks, Christine.
Great to be here.
And I am so thrilled to dive into some of the great nuggets that you shared before.
I'll start with the big opening question.
Who is your best boss?

Brent Currie:
My best boss ever is Joe Brandt.
I worked for Joe about 15 years ago for about three years in the Toronto area.

Christine Laperriere:
Why did he come to mind when we asked you this question?

Brent Currie:
I reflected on that a little bit.
I think with Joe, the biggest thing for me is I genuinely felt that he wanted me to be the best version of myself I could grow to be, and that any of his coaching or feedback or suggestions were 100% altruistic, if that makes sense.
I truly felt that his desire was to, and it wasn't just me, you could probably find dozens of people literally across the bank that would say Joe was their best boss ever, because he truly invested in individuals, which ultimately helped him build high-performing teams, but the investment was in me, not in being the boss, if that makes sense.

Christine Laperriere:
Did you say he had some really great words of wisdom or he had the rules?
I really want to hear.
Tell me a little bit about this playbook that he started.

Brent Currie:
Yeah, so I created my own version of it.
I actually have a page on my computer called Wisdom from Joe that over the course of my time working with him, he would say things, some are direct quotes, some are concepts, and I would write them down, because I knew here I am now, like I say, 15 years later, and I reference that page from time to time just to see what I've maybe forgotten and haven't kind of leveraged, but they're helpful reminders to me that kind of live on, on and on.
I mean, a couple of examples, Joe had a document called The Ten Rules of Managing People, and they're just intrinsic truths.
They were facts that he had learned and experienced over his decades of leadership that he shared with all of us, and as we read through those rules, we would see examples that we had experienced, and sometimes we would see stuff that we hadn't seen come to light, but I can tell you, in the last 15 years, I don't think there's a rule in there that I haven't seen.
I'm not going to go through all 10, but I mean, like a couple of them are, never be surprised.
You think you've figured things out, which way the road turns and where the business is going, and things happen, and the way I've always interpreted never be surprised is never get flustered when things don't go according to plan.
Joe was one of the consummate examples of something would go wrong or not as planned, and his first reaction was, okay, let's understand what happened.
What are the facts?
How do we deal with it?
How do we move forward?
And so just the recognition that things will go off script, expecting the unexpected is half the battle, I think.
The other one was, Joe used to talk a lot about realize how important it is to build trusting relationships with your team, but also realize that because you're the boss, some people will never tell you 100% of the story.
And whether that's their own insecurities or fault for not building enough trust or whatever it is, realize that not everybody will bear their soul and tell everything about what they're thinking or feeling or worried about.
And he would always impress upon us the point that that's your job now as a leader to try and suss out the unspoken.
When someone says they're fine and you think they're not, why?
When someone gives you a reason for why something happened and you think that there's another part of the story in there, how do you get at that in a safe way, in a constructive way?
But just the realization that just because you ask somebody something and they answer it, oftentimes that boss relationship will filter that answer and just to kind of look for that gap and build the confidence to hopefully close and eliminate that gap most of the time.

Christine Laperriere:
I mean, and again, that's an important leadership quality that a lot of us don't really talk about.
That one puts the onus on the leader to help uncover what was the missing information instead of pointing the blame at the team member who didn't feel comfortable sharing.

Brent Currie:
No, for sure.
I always felt with Joe that he never missed a teachable moment, but it always landed well, right?
We've all got things get labeled as constructive criticism, but sometimes constructive criticism kind of does feel like flat out criticism and you don't see the constructive value in it ever if not right in the moment.
But Joe had a knack for that not happening, right?
Something would come along and it would almost feel like it was script out of a movie, like something would happen.
You would say something and he would come in with some quote or some idea or some concept to make you think about it in a totally different way.
And it's like, how do these situations keep happening where he's just got the answer?
And in hindsight, it's the experience and the fact that he'd been around the horn a few times with different people in different scenarios.
But my point is whenever the feedback was delivered, it always felt like the gift that it was intended to be.
That's one of the things I picked up from him as well is when I do share feedback or constructive criticism, whatever label we decide to put on it, you say to someone, like if I didn't care about you as an individual, if I didn't care that you reach your full potential, I wouldn't give you the feedback.
Because oftentimes the feedback isn't make or break news or suggestions.
It's the stuff around the edges that helps people be better employees, better leaders, better people.
And a lot of it is kind of take it or leave it.
You don't really need to give all that feedback to help someone be a good employee.
But it's the stuff around the edges that is sometimes harder to share about the way someone's coming across or the way you're perceived or these sort of soft things that are uncomfortable conversations.
You need to be to have them.
But when it comes in a spirit of truly wanting someone to be their best, then it is more likely to be received as a gift.
And that's the way I always felt with Joe.
He never made me feel bad about the feedback that he shared or the suggestions that he would make.

Christine Laperriere:
That's excellent.
I have a tendency to nickname that the broccoli between your teeth feedback.
It's like, please don't let me walk around like this.
Sure, I can do it.
Nothing terrible is going to happen, but please don't let me work this hard and walk around with broccoli between my teeth.

Brent Currie:
And then if I don't tell you that you had broccoli between your teeth and then the next person does, you're going to look at me and go, why wouldn't you have told me that?
I mean, why didn't you give me that feedback?
And that can actually break down that trust or that feeling that have you really got my back?
Because if you did, you would have given that little awkward piece of feedback.
And yet you let it go.
I smiled for another 20 minutes until someone else took pity on me.

Christine Laperriere:
That's exactly it.
Right.
And that's, I do, I think that's the characteristic of a great boss.
I hear that over and over again is that, you know, they're willing to go there because it's in benefit of you, the person they're serving.
It's not about them.
Right.
Do you have any stories that you can think of that were particularly interesting from when you worked with him?

Brent Currie:
So the format that we were in, he led Toronto region.
So all the, all the branches in the region, kind of the GTA.
And there were eight of us that reported to Joe.
So eight district leaders that each had a collection of branches.
And once a year, you talk about the goals for next year.
Right.
And, you know, how do we want to, you know, acquire new customers, you know, different sales targets, things like that for the year and other regions I'd heard would have a very top-down approach to that.
Right.
So region would just say here, here for the eight of you, here are your goals.
And then figured out for the rest, Joe didn't do that on our behalf.
He instead would take the eight of us and literally locked us in a room and said, supplied with lots of guidance, lots of analysis, lots of data and said, you guys come out when you believe that the regional plan is fairly allocated across the eight of you.
And his guidance was you've all got a responsibility to take a big enough piece of the plan so that the region is successful.
And you've all got a responsibility to not kind of sit in the weeds and hope you get a smaller slice than you really think that you could deliver.
Cause that's not fair to the rest of your colleagues.
And his point was if at the end of this day or two days or however long it took us, if one or two of you comes out going, I got away with it here, like I got a little piece of the plan, then you've all failed.
And if one or two of you comes out of here and goes, Oh my goodness, like, how am I going to tell my branches the plans this big?
Like they're going to say, we don't have a chance of being successful.
He goes, if one or two of you think that then you've all failed.
He said, if all eight of you come out of here going, Oh man, that's, you know, that's a, that's a bit of a push and that's a stretch.
But you know what?
I think if we all work together, we can all get there and help more customers be successful and help the bank be successful at the same time, then you've probably done a good job as a team.
And I think that was a lesson he left with me is he never created a sense of competition within the team.
It was always, you know, customer first team, second, and kind of all for one, one for all, which, which I think created that broader trust across his team, which was, which was really good.
One of the funniest stories I've got from Joe was, was the first time that I thought I'd figure things out.
And I had an answer to his question that he didn't think I knew.
And so what happened was every week you would get your report about how, how your team did, right against plan.
And one week I had a week where my team did 85% of the weekly plan and we're having our touch base.
And he asked me, so talk to me about last week's results.
Like you were only 85% of plan.
What happened?
I said, well, Joe, it was a weekend.
It was a short week.
There was only four days in the week.
So actually it was only an 80% week and we did 85.
So funny enough, I think we actually overperformed.
And he said, Oh, right, right.
Okay.
Short week.
Yeah.
So how come you guys only delivered 85%?
And he asked me the same question, exactly the same.
And I thought he didn't hear my answer.
I was on the road.
I was driving home.
I thought maybe he didn't hear me and myself services bad.
So gave the same answer.
And Joe said, Oh, short week.
Right.
Okay.
So how come you only did 85%?
And then I realized then when he asked me the same question, exactly the same third time in a row, I was missing something.
And his question was, well, how come in GTA North, they did 120% and how come in, how come in GTA East, they did 115, right.
And his whole point was it's a relative world that we live in.
And you know, you, you need to look from a performance standpoint.
It's not just how you did against the clock or against the calendar.
How you did relative to the rest of, you know, the comparison set and the relative performance message.
I'd never thought of that before.
I'd never had never been thrown at me by anybody else.
And it's basically shaped everything going forward for me.
Like it's, it's a relative world.
And it was just an interesting take on it that seems so simple, but at the time didn't really see it.

Christine Laperriere:
I would have never thought of that as an answer either.
When I'm listening to the story, I wouldn't have, I wouldn't have gone there either.
That's, and it's so, you know, it's so insightful, right.
That, you know, and how did it make you think differently when there was another short week coming and you had to coach your team?

Brent Currie:
Yeah.
I mean, it's in the applications run even far beyond that job, right.
Where a different job entirely.
And someone would say why something didn't happen or why it was more difficult for their team.
And it always led to the question of, okay, well that that's a good reason, but why is that different than anybody else?
Right.
Why is that like, is sometimes we give, we give what we think are excuses for things, but there are actually reasons that don't hold up against the relative comparison set.
Right.
And it was not to create a gotcha moment.
It was to create an awareness of don't explain away a problem and feel good that there's no problem when there actually is a problem and you're looking at it wrong.
Right.
So if there is and you excuse it away in an invalid way, you're going to stop looking for ways to improve and stop looking for ways to get better.
You'll just say, Oh, it's just because of the way it is.
Right.
And this relative, why is it different than any other region?
Why is it different than any other product or any other company causes you to go, I don't have the answer yet.
And I got to keep thinking about it or keep working with the team for them to think about a way to improve or a way to evolve.
Amazing.

Christine Laperriere:
So I do have a question for specific to when you work for Joe.
So many people have a hard time materializing the investment in leaders because they can't always see that direct investment.
But I'm curious, when you think of a leader like Joe Brandt, who was really, you looked up to, and you saw, you kept having these small aha moments every time he had these teachable moments.
What do you think was the hard hitting benefit to the business from a number standpoint?
I mean, could you guesstimate?

Brent Currie:
Everything he talked about started with, why does that matter to the customer?
How does that make a customer better off?
How does that make a customer feel better about their future and therefore want to do more business with us?
So because everything was always grounded in a customer needs standpoint, then what flows from that are more trusted relationships, more business, more loyalty, more referrals.
But it started out with a pure objective of one customer at a time.
How have we made their life better?
And all the other stuff just flows from that.
And that doesn't matter if you're in banking or if you sell toothpaste or if you sell cars.
It's not tricks of the trade to sell more.
It's about what unmet need do customers have that you have a solution for and how are you making that solution easy for them to get, understand, use, ask questions about, ask for help when they have it, because people's lives are busy and information overload makes lives confusing.
And if everything you focus on is meeting needs in an easy, frictionless way for customers, the business benefits will just flow naturally out of that.

Christine Laperriere:
So you know it impacts the bottom line through aligning people so thoughtfully toward the end game, which is happy customers.
But again, it's interesting how it's always tricky to measure, but you can feel it.

Brent Currie:
Yes.

Christine Laperriere:
That's why I always play this game of metrics are kind of a fascinating thing because when people feel alignment, they know it's better for the business, but they can't always tell you exactly what beans changed in the bean counter.

Brent Currie:
Right.
And I think the opposite is true as well.
Like you'll know when it's not there.
Like, you know what bad leadership does.
You know that bad leadership or selfish leadership or inconsistent leadership from an employee engagement standpoint, from people wanting to be at work and go the extra mile and spend that extra hour, you just won't get that.
Like you'll get a lot of just enough.
Thank you very much.
And again, you can't quantify the negative impact of that, but you'll certainly feel it in the long run.
Right.
You know, and I also think of it just as a legacy standpoint, like, you know, I learned a lot from Joe in the time I worked for him, but like the applications extend far beyond that one job.
Like they weren't, they weren't lessons that only ring true in this job or in this environment.
They don't only ring true in banking.
Like a lot of the stuff that I learned rings true in life, let alone, you know, leadership and a professional environment.
So I think that also just goes back to the, the authenticity of the leadership that, you know, helping people be better employees or better leaders themselves usually has a knock on effect in people's lives as well.
They go home at night, feeling better about their job, which allows them to be in a better mood when they're home with their family.
It allows them to bring wisdom to their, whatever their relationships are in their personal life.
Like you can't just shut off work Brent from home Brent from friend Brent from son Brent.
Like those are all people are fluid and work in a bunch of different environments.
And so I, I do think you've got an obligation as a leader to realize that the environment you create for people at work can have positive or negative knock on effects far beyond the office hours.

Christine Laperriere:
Absolutely.
That is probably one of the biggest things that I see is this leaders, the best bosses I really do believe can kind of change the world for a lot of people.
So it's why I'm so passionate about this topic because you do, you influence so many people when that person that works on your team goes home and they've had a terrible day and they don't have enough energy to talk to their kids and they kick the dog or whatever, you know, it's like all those people that have to live with them are by it.
So a great boss can be a game changer.
Amazing.
And so any other great leaders that come to mind, obviously I hear Joe is special, but do you have other ones that come to mind when I think of best bosses?

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, like I've been very fortunate to have the opportunity to work with a number of great leaders over my career.
And so, you know, in the spirit of just picking one more, I worked for a fellow named Daniel and it was during COVID another leader at the bank.
Daniel's magic, I think was his ability to always, always was calm, never saw him get flustered ever.
And whenever something went off the rails, the first inclination, unlike many leaders, which is like how this happened, who was involved in it.
And the questions can feel very much like blame gaming.
He was always instantly, what happened?
Do we know for sure that's the extent of it?
What happened from a understanding standpoint?
Have we prevented it from happening again?
Like have we stopped the bleeding and what's the learning going forward?
And it was this learning orientation that was part of his personality and part of the way he presented to people throughout the whole company, which was people weren't therefore afraid to tell people when something went wrong because you knew that it was going to be received in the spirit of like, there's the immediacy of stop it, make sure it doesn't happen anymore.
But the learning and improving going forward was always the focus.
It wasn't a finger pointing blame game type situation.
It was always forward looking.
How do we use this to get better going forward?
And oftentimes the learning that resulted in mistakes was almost worth the mistake, right?
But because he genuinely treated surprises in that forward looking way, it made people comfortable to share.
And I believe the trust quotient just skyrocketed because of that.

Christine Laperriere:
And that's a really good point when you talk about the trust quotient, because to me, it's interesting how everybody thinks that they're very trustworthy and that you can be trusted.
But trust shows up on the bad day of like how safe do you feel in that environment?
The good days, we all trust each other.
But going to your boss in the middle of COVID and telling them that something came off the rails or a mistake was made or something got overlooked, that's the day that you don't feel nearly as safe as you did the day before.

Brent Currie:
Yeah.
Now we see if this was like actually who you are or if it's just lip service when the sun's shining, right?

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
Which I see a lot of the lip service version.
So I think that's a great example of how somebody really lived into his values so that you could trust him fully.
And during COVID, I mean, was there anything that he did to help the team kind of work through such a challenging time personally?
Because so for many of us, it was a very challenging time personally.

Brent Currie:
Yeah, there were a lot of, and this was new for me, like more of the, like I've always been someone that doesn't separate personal life from work life.
Like I am interested in what you did on the weekend and what your kids are doing or what, you know, your mom's party or like I do that stuff normally.
But what I learned from Daniel was the need to be even more regular and deliberate and maybe a bit deeper on those conversations, like the check-ins about how are you really doing?
And for me, that was, it was honestly awkward for a while because I wasn't wired to get that personal with people I work with and would tend to be a little more of the, no, I'm fine.
It's all good.
Yeah, it's okay.
You know, and it took a few of those conversations with him and his leadership team for us to feel vulnerable enough, I guess, to actually say how you were feeling.
And I think that that exercise with us as the leadership team helped us to then bring that authenticity to our teams as well about the importance of check-ins and that that wasn't unique to our business or unique to the bank.
I mean, I think people worldwide learned the importance of connecting with colleagues and teammates at a more personal and real level during COVID.
And I've seen that extend beyond the pandemic, which is one of the good things we're left with with the pandemic is this less transactional relationships and more real relationships and understanding that you're leading human beings, like you're not leading job titles.
And if that's done authentically, I think it can be very powerful.
So that was a big takeaway from my time with Daniel.

Christine Laperriere:
I think that's a great example.
And I all be able to do that more frequently, but it probably never felt like a necessity the way that it did during that time.

Brent Currie:
It became popular and I think it's become lasting, which is good.

Christine Laperriere:
Which is great.
Yep.
Perfect.
And then I'm just curious.
I mean, we kind of danced into this when you've not had a best boss ever.
What are some of the attributes that kind of have stood out to you?

Brent Currie:
Like, I mean, I wouldn't say this person wasn't a best boss or was a bad boss.
I think everybody, present company included, has stuff about us that people who work with us probably wish we didn't do.
Right.
And whether they're habits or mannerisms or things like that, like there's a few that I've picked up along the way.
And I think if you try to get past them being that's irritating or that doesn't let me be my best and see the learning of it and go, maybe I want to make sure I never do that for anybody that I lead.
Right.
And so what are some of the habits that I've seen from leaders that I go, Hey, it doesn't mean you're a bad boss.
It's just like this little bit of the way you show up and I don't like, and I don't think a lot of people would like, and so I'm not going to do it.
Right.
And so nothing major other than, I mean, one would be the after hours email thing.
Like I had a couple of people I worked for that I could tell their work time was Sunday mornings and mine's not like mine's not.
And to get emails from your boss at 10 in the morning on a Sunday when even though he or she is not expecting an answer, but it's still ping, ping, ping on the Blackberry on the iPhone.
When I'm trying to separate myself and have a nice Sunday morning with my family, I found it very distracting.
And so COVID became a weird thing for that because people's work days kind of got all flexible.
Right.
I'm working from home.
So I've, you know, I might have to do stuff with my kids and then I'll be online later.
And we've lost this sense of a clock.
And so I also work at weird hours generally, like super early or late at night or on a Saturday.
Cause I cut out early on a Thursday and all these things.
But, but I'd ask my team now, like I tend to go like, do you, would you rather me when something comes to mind on a Saturday afternoon, do you want me to plop it into your inbox on Saturday or do you want me to save it up and like carpet bombing Monday morning with 16 emails?
And some people say, send it to me when you think of it, because I know that you don't need the answer right away, but it allows me to kind of reflect on it for a bit and think about it.
And it doesn't hijack my day when Monday, I think I've got my day plan.
All of a sudden, you know, I've got three questions at seven in the morning.
And others would say, I'd rather you keep the distance and draft them and hit send first thing Monday.
And so everybody's different.
And so I just learned from that one that like, you know, there are people who would have got those Sunday morning emails from that boss and but it's, I think it's asking and trying to say, you know, how do, how do I customize?
How do I do that is important.
And I think the most important one for me is consistency of mood of, of reaction.
Like I, like we all have days that are best, whether they're, you know, work stress, personal stress, I'm just tired.
I don't feel well, like whatever it is, but I never want to be the person that someone comes to me with something and my reaction was more influenced by other parts of my environment and it causes them to be afraid to come to me next time or to wonder because I've, I've seen that, like there are some people going like, is it a good day to ask them about this today?
Like what's, what's the vibe today?
Is now a good day to table this with the boss?
And it's like, don't, that's not good.
Like I, I would hope that people never have to double clutch before they come to me wondering what Brent they're going to get.
And so consistency and not, not fake, right?
Like I, like I don't think we can all say I'm great.
I'm awesome.
I'm perfectly fine.
Cause then people see like it's just, you've just slapped on veneer and now I don't trust you because nobody is perfect all the time, but it's, it's being human, but at the same time, being able to pause and realize that other stressors in your life don't mean that the way you react to things from your need to come out differently.
So consistency, respect, measured reactions, you know, don't get too excited.
Don't get too down, kind of keep it in the middle of the lane.
I think consistency takes away an unnecessary stress that inconsistent leadership would give to people.

Christine Laperriere:
I really like that point.
And I don't think anybody's ever brought that up before.
So I'm having an aha moment while you're sharing that because I think it's such a, it's exactly what you said.
It's like when you, when you have consistent leadership, you don't really notice it.
It's kind of like water.
You're just, you know, you appreciate it because you're swimming in it.
But I've experienced the inconsistent leadership in my own professional world.
And you're right.
That really does make each day almost like an added wild card.
Cause you have six things you're trying to get done.
And who knows how my boss is going to react today.

Brent Currie:
And now you're developing contingency plans in your head.
If she loves it, I'll say this.
And if he hates it, I'll say that.
And if he's kind of mad, then I'll do this, like all that energy that you just wasted on figuring out my next comment based on four potential reactions.
Like that energy could have been probably put into making the solution even better or working on problem number two.
And I just think time is, is it such a premium for everybody that anything we can do to, to not cause people to waste time dealing with our own inconsistencies is probably time well spent.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, that's excellent.
That makes so much sense to me.
And it does speak to the trust issue again, because it goes back to when you don't know what to expect and there could be a negative consequence when you walk into an office, you don't feel safe.
So, you know, it's the same thing.
Like you don't know, okay, well, if they were in bad traffic this morning, I don't know if I'm going to be the one that gets the brunt of that in the staff meeting, you know?
So it's such a good point.
Those are useful.
So, you know, I always think we do, we learn a lot from the leaders that we, we didn't, you know, the certain attributes, like you said, we didn't love that.
And let's try not to do that ourselves.
But I think those were some really good ones that again, you probably wouldn't even notice in a great leader, but you really notice when you work with somebody who doesn't bring that.

Brent Currie:
Right.
Yeah.
You notice when it's not there.

Christine Laperriere:
Perfect.
Just to kind of wrap these up, if you had to teach or advise future leaders on how to be a best boss, what would be some of the things you'd ask them to focus on?

Brent Currie:
Yeah, I think the first one is you being a leader, realize it's not about you, it's about the people you're leading.
Much like when I said, Joe always focused on the customer and the banker meeting with them.
And from that good results will follow.
I think, you know, if you approach leadership from almost like a servant leader standpoint and an enabler to help people recognize and attain their full potential, then good things will happen.
Like I want you to be successful for yourself.
I want you to recognize and achieve your full potential for yourself.
And you know what?
Knock on effect is if everyone on the team does that, then as a team, we're going to perform better.
And then that will reflect well on me as a leader, right?
As opposed to, you know, I want to make sure I mold and shape everybody well so that I look good as the leader.
I think it has to be genuine.
It has to be selfless.
I think the results will follow.
That's one.
I think that the check-ins are important.
Like that is one where COVID has helped me.
Like I say, I've never been someone to shy away from getting to know my team, but it's that little bit extra about really caring about, no, really, how are you doing, right?
I think people that are genuine about that also have a better connection.
And the last thing I think is assume good intent, right?
Like people make mistakes.
People say things that maybe they wish they didn't say or use a tone they wish they didn't use or an email is often the worst because, you know, tone gets inferred from the written word.
It's not heard and felt.
And so I think as a leader, teaching yourself and teaching others to always assume good intent versus reacting and assuming things is good.
So, you know, when mistakes are made or when a step is missed or when a word happens that someone kind of cringes at, if you start from a place of going, maybe they didn't mean for that to be the outcome.
And they were really trying hard.
And that's just the way it happened.
Let's understand why it's kind of ties into the Daniel thing, right?
Of like, okay, so that happened.
Let's let's try to understand why and what's the learning from it.
And I think assuming good intent is a good jumping off point for that.

Christine Laperriere:
I really like that because, you know, we try to encourage people not to make assumptions, but the truth is we're human.
So making assumptions is built into our brain's ability to figure things out quickly.
So instead of saying, don't make assumptions, saying, let's just assume positive intent.

Brent Currie:
Right, right.

Christine Laperriere:
Let's start with the best in mind that, you know, the person really was trying to do the best job they could in the moment.
And the best job might have been sending a scathing email at midnight, you know, and then to your point, then coaching from that.
Okay, if that was the best job you could do, how can we help you find a teachable moment out of that and a new strategy next time?

Brent Currie:
For sure.
I mean, it's if you assume good intent and then, your discovery unveils that it actually wasn't good intent, you'll get there fast enough.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Brent Currie:
But most of the time, it probably was good intent.
So, you know, you're going to be right more than you're not if you start out with that assumption work from there.

Christine Laperriere:
I think that's great.
Brent, this is amazing.
Thank you so much.
Again, I love picking out those words of wisdom from leaders who have worked for great leaders and getting a chance to find out kind of how you've informed your point of view.
So this is really helpful.

Brent Currie:
It was fun to do this.
Can I share one other thought just to end?

Christine Laperriere:
Please.

Brent Currie:
So one of the things that I've thought about and as I, you know, as I get on in my career is how are you going to be remembered?
And the whole legacy thing, right?
And it's, and I just know the way I talk about Joe, the way countless other colleagues who are on the team with me at the same time still talk about Joe, reference his lessons, reference his words, reference his jokes, tells me that like there's a leader that built a legacy that's long, long lasting and has knock on effects on a lot of people.
Right.
And so it was about 10 years ago that I made that switch in my mind where I said, like, as a leader, I'm not trying to be a good leader so that I continue to do well personally and professionally.
I'm being a good leader to leave a legacy.
Right.
And so I often think about, you know, like I go to the odd retirement party now and mine isn't going to be that soon, but when it does come, you wonder like, what are people going to say?
Right.
And I hope that long after I'm gone in this capacity that someone tells the odd story about Brent that they remember and that helped them.
Right.
And so for me, that's, that's always been a bit of the wind in the sails is leaving a legacy that will help people far beyond your time to see it.
Right.
So, you know, I've been, I've been very fortunate to have leaders in my life that have done that for me.
And if I can do that for a couple other people that work with me, that'll be 

Christine Laperriere:
I think that's incredible.
And it's such a wonderful way for people to reflect on their own leadership experience.
So many of us go to work and we might not be excited about the business issue we're tackling that day or the paperwork we're filing or whatever that is, but I'm sure coming into work and knowing that your intention is to leave a positive impact around the people that you've worked with, you know, that still helps you come home at the end of the day, feeling like you did good.

Brent Currie:
Right.
Right.
A hundred percent, I love it.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
Well, listen, that was so helpful.
And again, thanks so much for taking the time.

Brent Currie:
Thank you, Christine.

Christine Laperriere:
If you want to hear more, join me at christinlaperrier.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 58 
Title: Progress is progress
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Atsushi Yasuda

Christine Laperriere:
Now this week, I have something kind of special.
A man by the name of Atsushi Yasuda reached out to me on LinkedIn and was very inspired by what I'm doing with the Best Boss Ever podcast.
Of course, I love getting notes like this, and I'm so thankful to say that I get them quite often actually.
So as he reached out, he said, hey, my dad has really been an inspiration.
Would you be interested in the story?
And so he sent me a letter this last weekend explaining, kind of writing up a thought process to his dad.
And I just thought it was so cool that I had to read it to you.
So here it goes.
He says, I would not call this your typical story about business.
It's not about an IPO, a Gartner Magic Quadrant, or a product launch.
It's about the grind and the sources of inspiration that create change that last a lifetime.
Almost 40 years ago, when I was 17, my dad got me a summer job where he worked.
I was so excited as the hourly wage far exceeded the 365 most of my friends were making at the time.
My dad, Yoshitaka, an engineer by training, worked at a sawmill in a small town in British Columbia.
He worked alongside the salt of the earth men.
I don't really recall any women out there in the lumber yard that operated the heavy machinery, debarkers, bandsaws, and planers that made the mill hum.
He was responsible for designing and engineering the series of conveyors, hydraulics, and connected machines that took the felled trees and turned them into neat bundles of dimensional lumber.
Think the lumber section at Home Depot times a thousand.
It's a good demonstration here.
As the quintessential Asian man, my dad was a few words.
His approach to work and life was that actions will always speak far more than words ever will.
But when he did speak, you knew to listen.
The 10 minute drive to work on our first day together was uneventful until my dad started talking.
People are going to be watching you, work hard, don't be lazy, don't sit when there is work that can be done.
Geez, I thought, quite the pep talk at 7 AM.
When we got to work, we walked into his office where he handed me a hard hat and a pair of heavy duty gloves.
He put his thermos away before we walked out and down the metal stairs to the yard.
We ended up in front of the biggest gnarliest pile of scrap metal I have ever seen.
Your job is to clean up this pile of metal.
It cannot be burned, so it has to be put into the dump truck to be taken away.
For about 30 seconds, I got excited thinking that I would be driving one of those big loader trucks to get it into the truck.
You are going to carry the scraps and toss it into the box.
Whatever is too heavy, you can put into the bucket of the loader, and I will get someone to lift it once you fill it.
WTF, that meant I had to heave heavy pieces of heavy gauge metal 15 feet into the air to clear the sides of the dump truck box.
I guess that was what I needed the hard hat for.
I spent the next month clearing up the pile.
I stopped going to the gym, which was a daily ritual at the time, but I couldn't lift my arms over my head anyways.
The progress, albeit glacial, was measured by the shrinking pile.
I evaluated every single piece before I touched it.
I had to figure out whether I could lift it.
If I could carry it, I knew I could throw it.
It soon turned into a personal challenge.
I would target a portion of the pile and would go at it until it was clean.
I remember sitting on the pile while I had my lunch.
I remember my boots, new when I started, had the leather scraped off at the toes to the bare steel that was underneath within the first week.
I worked my ass off and I got it done.
But with a bit of help from the load operator, I cleared the area of the yard and I met my dad's four-week target.
I can still carry the experience with me, but over the years the lessons have evolved.
It started off as just about the physical challenges.
But as I got older and moved from steel-toed boots to laptops, airport lounges, and PowerPoint slides, I realized far more impactful lessons my dad taught me.
They aren't anything that I haven't read elsewhere, but I know it has stuck for me.
Number one, nothing replaces hard work.
It doesn't matter your profession, it takes reps.
It is that simple.
Whether you are a developer, a banker, or a plumber, or the CEO, it requires a focused investment of energy to hone your craft.
And I call bullshit if anyone tells you it's easy.
Number two, do not sit where there is work to be done.
My dad taught me in his own way to constantly look for opportunity to bring value, to take initiative and not wait to be asked.
It seems pretty basic now, but I don't think it's as obvious as it may sound.
Number three, it will look like shit until it doesn't.
It's way too easy to get caught up in the work in progress.
The pile of scrap metal that doesn't seem to be getting any smaller.
But progress is progress regardless of pace.
And most things will look like a hot mess until it's done.
And number four, be humble, proud.
It felt good when the pile of metal was gone.
But there was no parade, no party.
I wasn't even sure if my dad said anything or noticed.
Years later, I learned that he did notice.
He didn't know the effort it took.
His coworkers also took notice, which made him proud.
If you are doing something for the accolades and the fanfare, the external recognition, it isn't the right reason.
Be proud of your accomplishments and do it for the person in the mirror.
In closing, my dad has been longtime retired, but he remains the same.
At 84, he focuses his energy on maintaining a pristine yard, paying close attention to all the small details, and is still a man of few words.
I can only hope I can pass along a crumb or two of wisdom to my own kids the way my dad did for me.
Thanks, Dad.
I hope you found that letter as inspiring as I did.
And of course, I had no choice, but I had to reach out to Atsushi and ask him if he could come talk to me a little bit on the show.
So now that you've heard the letter that was sent, I have Atsushi Yasuda on the show just to talk for a minute about the impact of that letter and kind of the the inspiration behind it.
So thank you so much for being on the show.

Atsushi Yasuda:
Oh, I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Thank you for having me.

Christine Laperriere:
So, you know, what was the inspiration when you saw the Best Boss Ever podcast?
Tell me a little bit about what went through your head.

Atsushi Yasuda:
It was funny because my first reaction was really about, oh, somebody should be writing about me.
I'm a good boss.
But then it was really more around reflecting, you know, I've been in the workforce 30 plus years now, really trying to think about it.
And I'm at a point in my career where I feel a lot of what I get satisfaction from is mentorship and coaching.
And so this is one of these takeaways was so who made an impact on me from a boss and leadership standpoint and tons of great folks, tons of great leadership.
But really the one that really kind of stuck out for me was my dad.
It feels a little bit different because it's not what I do, you know, as a livelihood.
You know, when I really start to think about it, there was a lot of lessons that I picked up from him that really that is still applying very relevant for me.
Right.
So that was kind of the impetus.

Christine Laperriere:
And what kind of person is he today?
You said he still works on his garden.

Atsushi Yasuda:
He's still he's been long retired.
I would say he's been retired trying to do the last time, I think, 20 plus years now.
He is his own man.
He could tell you what reflects what represents him is the way he retired.
I would say is I was actually home visiting over Christmas time.
And he kind of pulled me aside and says, you know, I could use your help with something, which is very rare for my dad.
And I said, sure.
What do you mean?
He says, I need you to write my resignation letter.
And I went, what do you mean?
He goes, yeah, I'm going to I'm going to retire after Christmas.
I went, OK.
But then he goes, don't tell your mother.
So this is what he thinks.
So that in a nutshell kind of reflects who he is as a person, he's still that, you know, he is a man of very few words.
And that's kind of how how I grew up with him.
I would say both my mother and father, they have been nothing more than supportive wholeheartedly for my brother and I.
But it is really one of those, I would say, quintessential Asian households where academics was kind of the priority and everything was a focus around, you know, making sure you get good grades, making sure you get a good education.
But that was kind of him.
Like he just did his business, obviously, very salt of the earth type of individual and didn't really kind of mince words.
So, you know, when he spoke, you listened.

Christine Laperriere:
I love that because, you know, some of us confuse leadership with talking.

Atsushi Yasuda:
Yeah, I would say it's the opposite, because if you're talking, all you're doing is you're just, you know, saying things that you already know by listening.
I think it's more about the the opportunity and the ability to hear other people's perspective.
So that, I think, is one of those things that I hold very true to myself.

Christine Laperriere:
Any other interesting things that he's taught you about leadership through the years?

Atsushi Yasuda:
Oh, I think it is one of those things about just I think it is about being humble.
And this is something that I take with me.
I'm not one of those individuals that I like.
I don't think I am in terms of that needs to be flashy.
I don't I don't crave the spotlight.
And he he was very much that way.
Like he, you know, your actions and your efforts and the results should speak for themselves.
And so it was really, you know, when you think about the politics that can typically come into play in a corporate environment.
That was really a disconnect for me, like growing up, because, you know, what I learned from from both my parents was really about, you know, do good work and it will kind of you will be rewarded for that.
And so I think that's one of the things that I really that I think I kind of wear as kind of my the way I conduct myself professionally.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
Amazing that.
And you just were it sounds like really brought up with a true hard work ethic.
It's kind of like get up and keep adding value.
Right.

Atsushi Yasuda:
Oh, for sure.

Christine Laperriere:
Don't just sit there and wait.
I mean, I can think of so many times where it's like somebody sitting and waiting.
And I hear a lot about taking initiative in that story.

Atsushi Yasuda:
It's funny.
One of my closest colleagues that I've known for 30 plus years, he continues to bring that piece as you.
You remember when you and I talked and I said, you know, you kept saying that you don't want to be paid unless you bring value.
And it's funny that it's something that was core to my beliefs very early on in my career.
And I still and it persists today.
And so when I work with clients, I'm constantly talking about bringing value.
Otherwise, you know, I shouldn't be here if I'm not bringing value to you and your business.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Atsushi Yasuda:
So that is that is core to who I am and how I run my business.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
And obviously has made you very successful.

Atsushi Yasuda:
Absolutely.
I like to.
Sure.
Yes.

Christine Laperriere:
Yep.
Yep.
You can own it.
See, that's the humble thing.
You don't even want to own that.
You're still thinking, well, I could I could always do better.

Atsushi Yasuda:
Absolutely.
Yeah, for sure.
It is it has to be intentional.
And I think it is core.
It is true to who I am at a very essential level is that I'm surrounded by good people.
I'm surrounded by a good team.
They do the hard work.
They do the heavy lifting.
I'm just simply there to remove obstacles, impediments.
And that's kind of my function today.
And I feel that's a big part of the function of leadership is to really kind of support the team.
And I've heard people, you know, describe me as you're the type of leader that leads from behind.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Atsushi Yasuda:
Really, I had to think about it.
But that is very true.
Like, I really don't crave that limelight or kind of that spotlight at all.
Like, I don't shy away from it, but it certainly is not something that I need to feel satisfaction or to to kind of get really kind of get jazzed up over the course of the day.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
Well, and leading from behind is another interesting one.
It's like this.
Where did we get the assumption that the leaders should be in the limelight?
But for some reason, we do.
Now you can understand why a lot of teams probably feel a little disengaged when the leaders taking the spotlight.
But leading from behind, you know, is easier said than done.
Right.
And so when you really do care more about the success of your team than your own ego.

Atsushi Yasuda:
Yes.
Yeah.
I think that's a big one.
The ego thing is is not something that I grew up with.
I think, again, that's core to who my dad is.
He does not crave or look for or has any level of ego within him.
He is true to his word.
And he kind of, you know, say what you mean and mean what you say type of approach.
And so I value that.
And you know what I took away from him.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
Anything else you want to add is we're just wrapping up today.

Atsushi Yasuda:
I'll say like something about my dad very much a neophyte when it comes to technology, although I give him credit for doing online banking and things like that.
He still watches the news coming from Japan online on his computer.
I hope he appreciates and kind of will take a bit of a moment to give himself a pat on the back.
I hope that's kind of what he will give himself the opportunity to do.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
Well, it sounds like he was an incredible influence on you.
And what's so neat is you're living a lot of his legacy.
So you're leading the same way he taught you to lead.
And so it's neat to see how that impacts so many people who get a chance to work with you and experience you.
They're getting a chance to experience that same.

Atsushi Yasuda:
Natural extension, I suppose.

Christine Laperriere:
Exactly.
Exactly.

Atsushi Yasuda:
That's cool.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, that's really cool.
Amazing.
Well, thank you again.

Atsushi Yasuda:
Thanks, Christine.
I appreciate the time.

Christine Laperriere:
If you want to hear more, join me at Christine LaPierre dot com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 59
Title: A guy named Guy
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Joanna Track

Christine Laperriere:
Today, I have on a very special guest, a good friend of mine and a business colleague, Joanna Track, who is joining me.
I'm excited, Joanna, by the way.
I've been a customer of your businesses.
I've been a fan of yours.

Joanna Track:
Yeah, well, the feeling is mutual and I'm so excited.
I feel like, yeah, we can spend the whole podcast talking about all the ways we're connected and the things we've done.
We've worked in almost every capacity together.
So this was the natural next step.

Christine Laperriere:
I loved it.
And you obviously had someone that came to mind when we were talking about the Best Boss Ever podcast.
So just tell everybody where they can find you, a little bit about you.
And then I'm going to dive right into that big question.
Sure.

Joanna Track:
So, yes, well, my current chapter is as founder and partner in a boutique content marketing agency called Good Eggs & Co.
And we work with brands, primarily small medium businesses, which is what my passion is, helping them with all aspects of content marketing strategy and execution.
And that is after a long history, 20 plus years of being an entrepreneur with a number of businesses under my belt, including Sweetspot.ca and Elux and The Bullet.
And so, yes, a lot of experience doing my own thing.
But prior to that and a little bit in between have had a number of bosses.

Christine Laperriere:
Well, and as an entrepreneur, love it or not, we have many bosses.
I think of that.
I mean, my customer base is my, that's who I answer to.
So even if it's not in the same formal way that you think of corporate, you and I both know what it's like to work with a lot of different people and basically be trying to deliver.

Joanna Track:
Absolutely, you're always answering to somebody.
It's just a different type of relationship.

Christine Laperriere:
Exactly.
So I'm going to dive in with the question.
Who is your best boss ever and why?

Joanna Track:
Yes, so my best boss ever, absolutely no contest, was a gentleman named Guy, a guy named Guy.
A guy named Guy.
Who was my boss at Ogilvy, which was a large global ad agency that I worked for for about six years prior to jumping off and starting my entrepreneurial journey.
And I used to always say then, well, especially after the fact that if I were to ever work for anyone or anywhere again, it was really the only place I would ever go because the experience was so great, both the organization and the boss that I had.

Christine Laperriere:
That is amazing.
That's a pretty big testament.
So tell me more about this boss.

Joanna Track:
Yeah, so one of the things that made Guy the best boss ever was something he did even before I worked there.
So I was interviewing for jobs.
I was looking to make a change and I was working prior to that as a data analyst at the loyalty group, which is Air Miles.
OK, I felt like I was underutilized, like they were using my skill set at like the level, my abilities just was kind of stagnant.
So I was really looking to make a leap.
And but it was hard to sort of right size myself from this job that I felt was like a little junior to my capabilities.
And so I was interviewing for a bunch of jobs and I interviewed with Ogilvy and with a number of people, including Guy, and just the fact that he offered me this job, which, you know, most times, especially in advertising, you have to come already with the like you have to have done the job to get the job.
But he didn't.
He went on his feeling and what he felt.
I was a good fit and he saw the potential in me.
And so he gave me that chance, like to, you know, take the leap and try it.
And I really think that's one of the many testaments to what makes a great boss.

Christine Laperriere:
I think it's amazing when people can do just what you said.
They can interview you and instead of comparing it to a laundry list of things that you've already done, they can actually try to use their intuition, I guess, is probably the right word.
Their gut feel to see if they can take a chance on somebody.

Joanna Track:
Exactly.
And I mean, that is one of the many things I've taken with me in my career and as I've built my companies and how I've hired, because sometimes, yes, someone might not pick all the boxes on the skill set checklist.
But if you feel that they have the potential and they're a good fit and what we call in our world, a good egg, are they a good?
Then, you know, a good egg is malleable and you can teach people almost anything, but is this someone you want to work with every day and, you know, want to invest your time in because it's a two way street.

Christine Laperriere:
I love that.
And so it sounds like during the interview process, right off the bat, he he was already betting on you and already seeing your potential.
Give me some more stories and examples.

Joanna Track:
Yeah.
So then the next thing happened very shortly thereafter.
So, you know, when you start at a new job, I always call it the idiot phase.
Like, you don't know where anything is.
You don't know what you don't know.
You don't know what to do.
And you kind of sit around for a bit, feeling unproductive and not useful because you just don't have a hang of things.
And then you look back later and you laugh.
But at the time.

Christine Laperriere:
You're learning something new.

Joanna Track:
Yeah.
So I was at Ogilvy for about three weeks and they had assigned me.
I was working on two accounts as like a mid level account management person.
But I was pretty much sitting on my hands for a lot of the time because I was just waiting for more stuff.
And then I started to get insecure and think, oh, I'm going to get fired.
Like they don't have work for me and agency life.
You know, it kind of ebbs and flows.
So I was getting really insecure.
And one day he called me and asked me to see me in his office.
And I was like, oh, I'm done.
And also, because, like I said, he gave me this job that I hadn't had the previous experience.
And now I'm sitting there doing nothing.
And I go in and he says, you know, we just received an RFP to pitch for FedEx Canada's direct marketing business.
This is so I was in Ogilvy one, which was the direct marketing arm.
So prior to the world of the days of Internet, this was, you know, direct mail, radio, all that.
So they have received an RFP from FedEx.
And he said, I'd like you to work with us on putting the pitch together.
OK, so now I'm working not just with him because he actually wasn't even my direct boss.
He was the managing director of Ogilvy one.
So at the time, I wasn't reporting directly to him.
So all this senior level management working on this pitch and me.
So definitely by far the most junior person in the room by many years.
And he just brought me into this pitch.
I think I mean, this is a long time ago, but let's just say it was a two week process of getting this pitch together.
And then I just assumed, OK, great.
They have what they need.
They're going to go pitch it.
And then he invited me to come, which also was exciting.
And then the day before, when they were doing like dress rehearsal, he said, OK, Joanna, so you're going to present this part.
And he assigned me a part.
And of course, I was so nervous.
And your level of management at FedEx.
And I've never done anything like this in my life.
And I honestly remember going into the pitch, being more nervous about the impression I was going to make on the senior team at Ogilvy and senior team at FedEx, because it was like all eyes.
Well, fast forward, we won the business and I managed that account for so many years.
And I mean, so many lessons were imparted on me from that experience.
And one of the things that I always talk about about what makes a great boss is putting, you know, your people center stage, not having a spotlight, letting other people and also letting people stretch themselves, giving them enough, not throwing them off the deep end to drown, but giving them enough of a stretch with a safety net where they can shine, try something new, stretch their skills, learn more and not feel the need to take the credit or steal the show, which unfortunately, I've had more bad bosses than good bosses.
And the constant theme of the bad bosses are these inflated egos who take all the credit, who, you know, they push people down so they can be up.
And Guy is was and still is the antithesis of that.
He was happy to give me a chance.

Christine Laperriere:
To elevate you, despite where he should be sitting and really quick.
So when you did pitch, how did he think it went?
I'm just kind of curious.
Did he give you feedback after?

Joanna Track:
Yeah, I mean, he thought I did a fabulous job.
But one of the other things actually that you just hinted at that I wanted to bring up was the way he gave feedback, not just at the pitch, but all through the years that I worked there.
He's so thoughtful with his feedback.
It was actually a joke in the agency because he's a British man and has got very much that kind of absent minded professor kind of aura to him.
And if you went into his office, either just to ask him a question about something or say you were showing him a deck and he was going to give his feedback on it.
He's so thoughtful that he would take these long pauses.
He wouldn't say anything.
And what felt like a minute is going by.
Everyone used to joke.
They'd be like, do we interrupt him?
Do we like what do we do?
Like, he's just quiet.
But like when you think about it, now that I'm more grown up and a leader, he's so not ahead of his time.
But I mean, it's just what people don't do.
But he would take the time.
He wasn't worried about the like, is this uncomfortable?
He was so careful with his words and how he said stuff and really thought things through.
And it really I still think about it to this day, you know, when I'm in a hurry to like interrupt someone or jump in or or react emotionally to something, I just like sit back and be like, can you take a breath?
Can you take a pause?
Can you allow silence for a few seconds, a minute, whatever it takes?
It was pretty amazing.
And then, of course, everything he always said was so fair and balanced and not emotional.

Christine Laperriere:
It sounds like he taught you how to be a good listener just through setting his example.

Joanna Track:
Yeah, he definitely taught me that.
And I always have said for many years that, you know, I actually got my MBA, but I said that at Ogilvy, I got my Ph.D.
not only in branding, but in leadership.
I learned everything there that I have taken with me throughout the rest of my career.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
So I'm just going to make space.
Do you have any other?
I mean, these are all such great stories.
Anything else that you want to add about your experience with him?

Joanna Track:
I mean, I would just say, I mean, that everything that went on was always consistent, like it never changed.
It never wavered.
Always giving opportunities, always hearing things out.
Also, instead of having to ask for the raise, ask for the promotion.
But they were so proactive, not only Guy, but it just felt that the energy there was they recognized talent.
They, you know, you weren't you never wondered where you stood or what you needed to do differently.
It was just it was the most clear cut communicative environment.
And another testament to that is that 20 plus years later, there are still there are reunions of that like cohort of people that work there at that time.
There are still people working there who were there at that time.
But guys since retired, but, you know, we had a huge reunion.
It was right before Covid and there was over a hundred people showed up.

Christine Laperriere:
Wow.

Joanna Track:
Which says a lot to go back to a company you worked at 20 years ago just to see everybody.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
That goes to speak to the type of culture that it built and how tight knit you all became.
Plus, the thing that I always find so interesting is if you work for an amazing organization with great leaders, you can all go spiral off and do the careers you were meant to do and stay really connected.
Right.
So how many times, I mean, the way you speak about Ogilvy is very passionate.
Like, what a great testament.
You know, you're not a customer, you're somebody who worked there and you have such high thoughts.
That's that's not normal.

Joanna Track:
Yeah, no, I mean, and I've always said if I wasn't an entrepreneur, it's probably the only place I would have wanted to work again.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah, that's amazing.
So in my business, as you know, a lot of organizations love to ask the question, what is the return on investment for building up best bosses?
I always kind of try to understand what is the impact of the business.
And if you had to guess, just even being an entrepreneur, knowing the lessons you bring to your own organizations, like, what do you think the return on investment is?

Joanna Track:
I mean, yeah, I mean, it more than pays for itself, because, you know, when you're a good leader and a good boss, then you train and mentor other people, not only in how to do the hard skills of their job or the technical skills, but the soft skills of how to manage situations, how to treat people.
And that continues to pay it forward.
So, you know, one would think that, you know, the ROI becomes up and up because, you know, I, you know, have imparted my lessons on people who then, you know, carry it.
I mean, you know, Samantha, who's my right now, has worked for me for almost 18 years in one capacity or another.
And now she went from being my intern 18 years ago, crazy to my business partner.
And now we pass it on to all the people that work with us, a certain style of work.
And so it continues to spread.
And hopefully, you know, it's like an antidote to the bad bosses.

Christine Laperriere:
Right, right.
And that's why I'm so passionate about this topic, as I'm just convinced if we can somehow keep lobbying for not just acceptable leadership, but amazing leadership.
Like when you explain your story about Guy, this is how I know it's a best boss story.
Is it changed the way you behaved in the future for the better?
Like you try to act like him in tough situations.
So just the way you explained him being very quiet, being very mindful, listening, very thoughtful with his words.
When we see somebody that we're really impressed by and we really look up to, that cements and impacts us.

Joanna Track:
People actually joke all the time now that when they speak to Sam on the phone, if they don't see her, they said, I actually sometimes can't tell you two apart.
You sound so much the same.
And I don't think it's just like our tone.
It's the things we say.
And so I would guess that probably travels further beyond Sam and I and to all the other people that we work with.

Christine Laperriere:
For sure.
I mean, that's and makes sense.
Right.
And then, I mean, when you think of you're not so good bosses, I heard ego, you know, I guess, what is the impact to the bottom line on the not so good bosses?

Joanna Track:
Turnover, which is very expensive, less productivity and bad behavior, I think, begets bad behavior.
So, you know, if I beat up on you, then you beat up.
Everyone's trying to like then it becomes a blame party.
As opposed to like rising up, which is everybody down.
You know, I mean, I don't have the stats offhand, but you and I both know that, you know, companies that are run well see better profits and the output speaks for itself.
And especially well, I was going to say, especially these days, but always people's mental health matters.
No job, no amount of money in the world is worth being miserable all day, being stressed, feeling uncomfortable, feeling beat down and not appreciated.
And I always say to employment is a two way street, even though I may be paying you, it goes both ways.
You are not my my slave or anything like that.
You know, I always say like the difference between a good boss and a bad boss, a good boss treats their employees like comrades, not soldiers.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
Right.

Joanna Track:
You are together in it.
And I'm asking you to do a task and I'm paying you for that task.
And in return, I'm giving you an environment in which to do the task.

Christine Laperriere:
I think that's a really good way of thinking about it.
The comrades versus soldiers.
Right.
And it makes so much sense.
But for some reason, I always say like the industrial age gave us this very hierarchical style of leadership.
And what you're seeing is nobody wants it anymore.
We're not doing jobs that even require it.

Joanna Track:
Right.
And also, yeah, I mean, people are just not standing for it.
There's, you know, there's a lot of competition.
There's most people are now awake to the fact that, you know, there's something better out there.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Joanna Track:
But up with it.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
This is amazing.
I am kind of curious.
I know you're a very big advocate for female entrepreneurs.
And I would just love to pick your brain for a few minutes.
Like, what have you learned?
What do you want people to hear about?
Because you've gained a lot of wisdom in that space.
I know that's something you're passionate about.

Joanna Track:
Yeah, I'm extremely passionate.
You know, our company right now, 90 percent of our client base is female led businesses.
So we have one or two clients that are led by men, but the rest are female led entrepreneurs.
And I think, you know, I sit on the board of directors of the forum.
As female entrepreneurs.
So, yeah, I mean, from my own experiences of talking about paying it forward, I find it so critical to to support this ecosystem.
And I think the struggle, unfortunately, that female entrepreneurs still have is that discriminatory attitude towards, you know, not getting treated with the same seriousness of women.
We still hold the bag on most of the household stuff.
You know, having to do that and run a company, you know, you wouldn't.
Still, to this day, people don't expect that much from a man.
And as you and I both know, running a company is really bloody hard.
Taxing physically, mentally, emotionally, financially, and then layer on top of that, being a woman, you know, less access to financial capital, less access to certain supports.
And I do find often, you know, women, I want to say are better leaders, but unfortunately, in my experience, my worst bosses were women.
I think that's where it, you know, gets like egos threatened, all those kind of negative feelings.
But I do find that where women can do better is they tend to communicate better.
They tend to be more organized.
And organization, I think, is a critical part of being a good boss.

Christine Laperriere:
Yes.

Joanna Track:
Remembering where things were left, documenting things, all those things like they translate into good leadership.

Christine Laperriere:
Absolutely.
Absolutely.
Amazing.
Well, what would be your biggest tip for anybody listening who wants to be a best boss ever, given everything that you shared today?

Joanna Track:
So actually, it comes from one of my favorite quotes of all time of David Ogilvy, who has a book of incredible quotes and thoughts on not just advertising, on leadership.
And he always says, you know, hire people smarter than you.
And then you'll have a company of giants.
Nice.
Because that relates to the taking out the ego, you know, focusing on the output and letting people shine.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
Thank you so much, Joanna.

Joanna Track:
Oh, it's my pleasure.
This was so fun.

Christine Laperriere:
If you want to hear more, join me at christinelaperriere.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 60
Title: The impact of safety
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Naomi Titleman

Christine Laperriere:
Today, I have Naomi Titleman, and I'm excited that I've had a chance to interact with Naomi through the years. We've been in Women of Influence together. We got a chance to know each other through AmEx. We've had lots of crossed paths, and so it's exciting that you mentioned that you have a best boss ever and that you were willing to take the time to come on the show. Thank you so much. 

Naomi Titleman:
Thank you for having me, Christine. It's great to be here. 

Christine Laperriere:
Can you just so everybody knows, give us the 30 seconds on you. Tell us. 

Naomi Titleman:
Sure. So I spent the first two chapters of my career in corporate. I was first at a big firm at Deloitte, and I'll talk about my best boss ever from Deloitte. Then I transitioned into corporate HR. So I was in the HR space for about seven years, most recently as the head of HR of American Express Canada. And then seven years ago, I went out on my own. I started my advisory business, Collaborativity, where I help large organizations. Actually, organizations of all sizes is really grapple with this new world of work. So help them solve problems to do with their talent strategy, really solving for the new world of work we live in. Also have a business with my partner, Mark Edgar, called Future Forward, where we have a podcast newsletter and a community for senior HR professionals. You're welcome to check out my website, futureforward.com. And we are really empowering leaders and HR professionals to make work better. So that's really our mission. 

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing. And that's why we have so much alignment. I love it. So just, I'm gonna dive in. I go straight for the jugular. So who is your best boss ever?
And tell us a little bit about him or her. 

Naomi Titleman:
So my best boss ever, his name is Chuck. And when I first joined Deloitte as a clueless, bright-eyed, bushy-tailed Canadian in the Big Apple in New York City, I remember sitting on the proverbial beach kind of looking around. I mean, for those consultants listening, you know what it's like to be on the beach, especially when you're new to an organization and you're like, they may fire me tomorrow. I may not have a visa tomorrow, being in New York. And Chuck kind of, I don't know how he found me, but he kind of took me under his wing. And all of a sudden, I was part of his posse. And we worked with a lot of financial services companies back in the day. It was before Sarbanes-Oxley Times. So again, anybody who remembers the Sarbanes-Oxley Times, Post-Enron, Post-Anderson, we were working on that type of work even before Sarbanes-Oxley came into play. And Chuck was my mentor. He was my leader. He was actually my boss's boss, but he was just really instrumental at helping me build the confidence I needed as a bright-eyed, bushy-tailed Canadian in the Big City of New York. 

Christine Laperriere:
I love it. So tell me, how did Chuck do that?
Give me specifics. 

Naomi Titleman:
So I think what was great is that he really believed in me even though I didn't believe in myself at all, right?
So like I mentioned, I was new to the work world, had never, I mean, the jobs that I had had in university had nothing to do with consulting. We were doing risk management consulting, and he really empowered me to learn in the way I wanted to learn. He really invited me to meetings and allowed me to observe what a good meeting looked like. He also rolled up his sleeves and took my decks and I remember made big red circles around things and sometimes crossed out his edits and wrote the word step, which I never knew what it meant, but he taught me what the word step means, which means disregard my edit in Chuck language. So, you know, it just runs the gamut from being like in the weeds with us, even though he was a senior manager at the time and went on to have a very, very, very successful career at Deloitte, and also just being that kind of visionary, you know, strategic thinker, relationship builder with our clients. He kind of ran the gamut, which I really appreciated. 

Christine Laperriere:
So, was there a time where you messed up or you did something wrong and Chuck had to give you some feedback?

Naomi Titleman:
I mean, I'm sure I messed up lots and lots and lots of times. I don't recall a specific example, but I just remember never really being kind of fearful of Chuck's leadership and his disciples also. So, there were people who were, like I mentioned, there were managers between me and Chuck, who was the senior manager, and those managers seemed to take his lead in terms of how to lead in a motivating, empowering kind of firm, but fair way. So, I don't remember a specific example, because this is like 20 years ago at this point, but what I do remember is just feeling empowered and feeling that I was able to make those little mistakes and even some big ones and not kind of being massively penalized for it. 

Christine Laperriere:
Right, right. I mean, what you said is really interesting. You know, sometimes they say you won't remember what a person said or did, but you remember how they make you feel. And I feel like that's exactly what I'm picking up on is you were not fearful, which is interesting. That means you felt safe enough that you could learn and grow and try things without worrying about, oh, God, today's the day I'm gonna get the axe. 

Naomi Titleman:
Like, yeah. Yeah, absolutely. And he did a few things where he really stuck his neck out for me. I remember having an uncomfortable encounter with, you know, a male colleague, and he kind of stepped right in there and coached me through it and also spoke to the male colleague about it. He also, I mean, one of the biggest things he did, I mean, a few huge things he did. So one was he was my leader during the time of 9-11. So he was, again, that he was vulnerable enough that we saw the emotion come through, but had this unshakable confidence that we were gonna get through things as a team. And I remember, you know, going to the backup site for our client in Jersey City and kind of sitting there and kind of looking at each other and saying, now what?
And Chuck was just that amazing leader to really guide us through these very challenging times. So that was a huge pivotal moment in my career, I believe, that had I had a different type of leader, you know, I may not have even gone back to New York after 9-11 to tell you the truth. 

Christine Laperriere:
Right, were your offices in the downtown New York core then?


Naomi Titleman:
Yeah, they were in the World Financial Center. Chuck has his own story of that day. We've recently kind of shared our stories of the day. It's one of those things that we hadn't really talked about it until very recently, until our kind of mid-adult hood years. But yes, and our client also was in downtown New York as well as in Jersey City. So I'll never forget, I think Chuck was one of the people to go into the World Financial Center to recover our computers, because at the time we all kind of put our computers in our lockers and went home for the day. And, you know, that's what we did. So Chuck just showed a lot of bravery and a lot of just excellent leadership during that time. That only in retrospect do I realize, right?
I realized it at the time, but not the impact that it's had on my career and on so many others throughout his career. 

Christine Laperriere:
Wow, wow, that's an incredible story and example. You know, I'm thinking of, I had one of my worst bosses ever during 9-11. 

Naomi Titleman:
Oh, that's unfortunate. 

Christine Laperriere:
You know, to your point, there was no, I didn't feel any safer or any more secure or any more, you know, it was almost like, let's ignore this thing that's happening in the world, which to me felt crazy, you know. We can't just ignore this, right?
And so it was, it's just so interesting when you hear, I always say like that day really stood out to me as a sign of someone's leadership. 

Naomi Titleman:
Yeah, absolutely, absolutely. 

Christine Laperriere:
You know, so to you, that's a permanent mark, right?

Naomi Titleman:
Yeah, it sure is. 

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing. So in both of our businesses, we're asking companies to invest in building awesome leaders. And so I love to ask the question, if you could try to wrap your head around, what is the impact to the bottom line when you have the best boss ever versus when you don't?


Naomi Titleman:
It's a great question. I mean, I think Chuck can probably, probably count and also not know about how many amazing leaders he's developed and how many amazing leaders they've developed and how much business has been brought into Deloitte. I mean, he's a career Deloitte person. I mean, he's had so much impact on that company. He eventually, he had a few amazing roles, but the most recent role he had, or one of the more recent roles he's had is the CEO of the risk advisory business. And I can only imagine, you know, through his relationships and through his building of leaders, how much that's impacted the bottom line. I mean, without a doubt. 

Christine Laperriere:
Right. Well, I mean, in a way, it's kind of, you know, when you're talking about Chuck particularly, and then I'm thinking about how his leadership impacted you, it's almost like free leadership training for all of those that are working for Chuck. As they watch him lead and they watch how he behaves, don't you feel that influences everybody else?
Like you said, so many other people's careers were influenced by his leadership. 

Naomi Titleman:
Yes, 100%. I mean, one of the other things that he did for me specifically, that wasn't really kind of the cool thing to do back then, is he sponsored me to go and do my MBA. And there wasn't a formal program in place. And he basically stuck his neck out and said, hey, this is someone who I believe in and I want to send her to do her MBA. And he encouraged me to apply. And then with my husband, I need to give my husband some credit too. So he also encouraged me to apply. And then he said, we're gonna make this happen. We're gonna figure out a way to get you to do your MBA, you know, partially funded by Deloitte, which was amazing and not something that, again, we didn't have a formal program in place. And then when I finished my MBA, I had to have the tough conversation with him. I do want to come back to Deloitte, but I'm actually really interested in the people side of the business. I actually don't want to come back to risk management. And I thought that was gonna be a brutal conversation. And he was like, great, let's make that happen. I'm happy you want to come back to the Deloitte family. So just a really powerful example of sponsorship in the works. It's not, again, something that we talked about in those words back then, but in retrospect, I so appreciate the risk he took to do that for me. 

Christine Laperriere:
And, you know, again, here's another interesting example of the impact, right?
We have retention of incredibly high potential talent. That's what we have right there. So even if you didn't stay in risk, you came back to Deloitte and you still added value those additional years because you were sponsored and you were cared for and looked after, right?
And so I think that's a really, again, great example of where the impact is of having these type of leaders inside an organization. 

Naomi Titleman:
Yeah, absolutely. And I still, I always say I have green dot in my blood, right?
Like I haven't been at Deloitte since 2009, but I'm still such a big advocate for Deloitte. The network of people that I've been in touch with is just outstanding. And that's because of the relationships that I built while I was there with the amazing leaders I've had, both Chuck and others. 

Christine Laperriere:
Right, amazing. And it's hard to measure what the impact of that, but there's so much relationship currency there, right?
So if somebody wanted to go to Deloitte, you'd refer them in for sure. If you see high potential talent, right?
There's the ability to connect. They can leverage you, obviously. So again, these are all those things you can't measure and I find people want measurement to make them feel better about some of these investments. But when you're giving this example of Chuck, there's so many impacts of that great leader throughout organizations and relationships and just the way people wake up in the morning and probably feel about their career. 

Naomi Titleman:
Yeah, absolutely. 

Christine Laperriere:
So when you think of a worst boss or many, maybe, I just love to know kind of what are the traits or tributes of one that just didn't work well with you?

Naomi Titleman:
Yeah, I mean, I've been very fortunate that I've had great leaders. I mean, definitely things I learn, both in terms of how I want to behave and how I don't wanna behave. I wouldn't classify any of my leaders as the worst boss ever. But I would say, you know, that piece about not feeling anxious around Chuck's leadership and not being anxious about making mistakes. Definitely had other leaders where I felt more anxious about making mistakes and more worried about the micro because that's where the focus was as opposed to let's focus on the bigger picture. And yes, we have to get the micro good and let's not let perfect get in the way of good enough. And so that's what I would say. Leaders who operate kind of by policy and by mandate and by iron fist and by perfection, that's not gonna motivate anybody to do good work. And in fact, I mean, listen, some people are motivated. You know, you think about sports coaches and some people are motivated by people yelling in their face, but many people are not. And so really figuring out what motivates people to do their best work and what does the exact opposite is really important for leaders to take a hold of. And so I would say emotional intelligence is one of those things that can, I mean, it can't be overlooked because it's so critical that we understand how people are reacting to us and how people are performing as a result of reacting to us. So I know I didn't directly answer your question because I've been very fortunate, but I'd say in those circumstances where I'm feeling, oh, I can't do this unless it's perfect. It's probably not what I would have wanted to emulate in my leadership style. 

Christine Laperriere:
You know, and you're making a really good point because I work with a lot of fantastic leaders who are driven perfectionists, not that they are worst bosses or anything like that, but just by nature have a very strong perfectionism. And interestingly enough, they hire great talent that also have that perfectionist in them. And so what you end up with is this stack up of perfectionism, right?
Where people are working until the midnight hour trying to make it perfect, then it gets handed to a perfectionist who sends it back for eight hours of revision because it's not perfect. You know what I mean?
And so maybe it's like for me when I hear that it's kind of an efficiency along with a career enjoyment. Like it's just nobody loves that thread of like it's not going to be good enough no matter how many hours I put in. 

Naomi Titleman:
Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, that's a great point. 

Christine Laperriere:
So if everybody listening is learning how to become or aspiring to be a best boss, tell us what would be your tip for them or the nugget that you really want them to take away from our conversation today?

Naomi Titleman:
I think empowerment is a thread that we're seeing in a lot of different areas in our space these days. So, you know, if we think about new ways of working, hybrid working models, there's got to be an element of empowerment, right?
If we think about, you know, delegation. So delegation isn't drop it on someone's lap and then leave. It's really being there as a support and as a sponsor and as an advisor and as a coach. So really perfecting that balance is really critical. So, you know, empowerment is my word. It doesn't mean delegate and leave. It means be there as a support and don't create that system of fear where people feel that, okay, well, I've been delegated to but not really because they're going to micromanage me through it. So I know it's a long-winded way of answering your question but I'm seeing a lot of trickiness around empowerment lately, especially as we're still in the conversation of new ways of working and empowering people to work when and where they're most productive, which is an entirely other podcast episode. 

Christine Laperriere:
Right, amazing. Well, listen, I love that you've given people something really to think about as they leave this conversation. And again, so glad that they can find you. Remind me really quick. What's your Instagram handle?

Naomi Titleman:
So Instagram and LinkedIn is Future Forward, F-U-T-U-R-E-F-O-H-R-W-A-R-D. And you can also find me on LinkedIn personally. 

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing. Thank you, Naomi. Have a good one. Thanks so much. Thanks so much, Christine. If you wanna hear more, join me at christinelaperriere.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 61
Title: Leveraging powerful personalities
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Lule Demmissie

Christine Laperriere:
Today, I have Lule Demissay with me, and I'm really excited about this conversation.
We connected over LinkedIn.
She had a great best boss ever story.
And so this is probably one of my favorite formats where I get a chance to just find out from somebody who who just heard the concept and felt inspired by it, who is your best boss.
So thank you, Lule.
Thank you for joining me.

Naomi Titleman:
Oh, my pleasure.
Thanks for having me.
I'm glad we connected.

Christine Laperriere:
I'm so glad we connected.
And just so everybody in the audience knows, kind of tell us a little bit about who you are just before we dive in.
Yeah.
So my name is Lule Demmissie, and I am the U.S.
CEO of a fintech called eToro, which is a trading platform that offers self-directed investing instruments like stocks, options and other things in the U.S.
as well as globally.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing, amazing.
And so I'm going to dive right in.
So tell me, who is your best boss ever?

Naomi Titleman:
I think it would be ungenerous of me to say it's just one boss.
I've had a collection of people that are either my direct managers or, you know, a few bosses up that ended up being like a mentor, mentor slash boss that really impacted my life.
Just to give you a little bit of backstory, I'm from Ethiopia originally, so I'm a naturalized immigrant of the United States.
So my first best boss was about five years into my time outside of business school, I was sponsored by a gentleman to be able to be a permanent resident in the U.S.
because of the work I was doing.
And he was so generous in the way that he apprenticed me and made sure that I learned the skills he did.
One of the things that I learned, like some of the best bosses, is that they don't hoard knowledge.
For a lot of people, I feel like they think that knowledge is the thing they have to hold on to create value in what they do.
And he was the exact opposite.
He was so generous in the way he apprenticed me in the micro things and the macro things.
And then he was really generous in terms of giving me opportunity to practice it out loud, whether it was presenting or being the lead in something.
And so it was really interesting.
And it was also something that taught me how, you know, your best bosses, your mentors, they come in different shapes and sizes.
He and I could not have been any more different.
He was from Connecticut, one of those, like, really rishy-pishy sounding towns.
His favorite sport was golf.
I know nothing about golf.
And yet we were kindred spirits.
And it was a lesson also in the fact that there's a core humanity when you find somebody who's a really good mentor or boss that really can connect to anybody on the planet.

Christine Laperriere:
So I have to ask, what do you think was his inspiration to sponsor you and to mentor you?
Here he has this person that, you know, is from a completely different part of the world.
So not only are you learning business, but you're also learning kind of the culture and the way U.S.
business operates, right?
So what would be his inspiration to take you under his wing like that?

Naomi Titleman:
I think that he really gravitated to my work ethic.
He also saw how I didn't hoard what I learned.
I think, you know, for a lot of people who are generous with their knowledge, they're a little bit more judicious about sharing it with people who are also going to share it with others, right?
I think he spent his time with me because he probably felt like he was sprouting another person in his image of somebody who was going to be hardworking, strong work ethic, which he had, but also who would pass it on, if you will.
Part of it is, you know, because I grew up in so many different places, early on, by the time I was 18, I grew up in like four different countries slash continents.

Christine Laperriere:
Wow.

Naomi Titleman:
So I learned how to embody the person's story, how to live in their space.
And I find that if somebody is really sort of going to connect bridges and tunnels to you, that that disarms them, that makes them more open.
And so I think he appreciated that, that I didn't come in assuming I was not going to have, as I said, kindred spiritness with him, that I was interested in what he was doing and saying, and I didn't let perceived identity sort of blocks not to have that connection.
And I think that that was appealing to him.

Christine Laperriere:
That's really amazing because we're always trying to challenge leaders to think about who are you going to take under your wing and groom, right?
How it's an important part of a leader's responsibility to sponsor great talent.
And so when I hear that, it just tells me, you know, it's really neat that he picked you and invested in you and gave you that time.
Can you tell us some stories and examples, you know, if we're trying to emulate that great behavior that he brought?
You know, give me some stories and examples of how that looked.

Naomi Titleman:
So part of it would be how he would, there was one situation where I had to put together a pitch, if you will, for a particular strategy we were pursuing.
And he took time to have me tell the story back and forth to him, that apprenticeship that comes to it.
He was a good mix of like very blunt feedback where it didn't work because I didn't need anybody to coddle me, but at the same time, you know, was very supportive and that sort of old adage of what improv artists tell you, he was a very much an and person.
That also is a mindset that really was I learned from him, the idea of like building up somebody while you're still giving them incredibly, you know, tough feedback.

Christine Laperriere:
I love that.
Well, and interestingly enough, it sounds like one of the things that you'll hear over and over is if a best boss is coming from a really good place of trying to build you up, that tough feedback is welcomed.

Naomi Titleman:
Yeah, I think it does take a certain, you know, I think that you have to calibrate it with people.
Some people don't have the thick skin to be able to handle it, but you're right in the sense that, you know, when we have that feeling of being able to be vulnerable to people, we're going to be able to hear them more.

Christine Laperriere:
That's fantastic.
So what other bosses came to mind?
It sounds like you couldn't pick just one.

Naomi Titleman:
Oh, my goodness, I can.
I mean, and I would love to tell you a few more.
So there was a CEO of a company I worked at called TD Ameritrade.
His name was Tim Hockey, and he's your fellow Canadian.
He was honestly one of the wisest people I had encountered.
The level of time he took to share what he learned, share what he knew, and asked questions as you thought out loud, and taught me the art of helping somebody think through problems, whether it was their own sort of mental block or whether it was an actual business problem through the art of answering and asking questions.
That's what I learned from him.
He was a great reader.
He read a lot of books, and he would share what his readings were, and I love books as well.
I love reading whether it's about self-improvement, behavioral science, business, fiction, history, the whole gamut, and he had that kind of sort of wide swath appetite, and he would share his books, and then he would literally have a 15-minute book review conversation with me sometimes.
I think that that's the other thing.
Bosshood is not about just the work.
It's about how somebody taps into your humanity and what is your interest and connecting on that, and he was really good at that, even though he wasn't my direct manager.

Christine Laperriere:
That's amazing.
I hear great leaders talk about being really well read and then using those ideas just to inspire more conversation, more thought.
I think lots of us love that intellectual candy.
We like that new idea or something new to chew on, and so what a great way that he could inspire you on any given day of the week.

Naomi Titleman:
And he passed on that habit even more.
I mean, I loved reading before that, but it was a habit I really fortified after having encountered him.

Christine Laperriere:
That's amazing.
And then who else?

Naomi Titleman:
And then my last boss was, my current boss is wonderful as well, but my last boss was a woman.
She was the head of a fairly sizable consumer bank, and I ran the investment business under her, and she was formidable.
She was like a lioness.
She was both full of heart and full of head at the same time.
And what I really appreciated being under her stewardship was it really unleashed my desire to practice courage.
I've always loved the idea of being courageous.
I failed a lot when I was younger, so I learned it through that realm.
I think that if you fail a lot, you either will be highly depressed or you become courageous.
I chose the other path, but she really taught me the art of courage in business, the art of courage in managing people and groups of people, and allowed me to practice it on my own terms.
A lot of times when you work for a very big personality, sometimes their personality can not have room for others.
You have to fashion yourself to that person's style because they are such a big personality.

Christine Laperriere:
Exactly.

Naomi Titleman:
She was a master of being able to fill a room with her style, but allow other big personalities to thrive in her orbit.

Christine Laperriere:
That is talent.

Naomi Titleman:
That is incredible talent.
And again, part of it, as I said to you, is I really try hard to go where people are at.
And I find that when I do that, the relationship starts from a place of not judging.
And so they become more generous as well in the way they approach the relationship.
So it wasn't always like that for everyone, but me and her were like that.
And it was wonderful.
I went through the pandemic years with her, and I'm in retail trading.
And you can imagine retail trading had a huge upsurge.
We gained in usership in just during the pandemic period what we gained the last 10 plus years.
It was a tenfold growth in a blip of a time.
That was really adventurous.
And it had all sorts of interesting benefits and also challenges.
And she really let me sort of stretch my wings and be able to sort of drive the bus.
And that was really like, that was amazing.
That is what I learned is like how to, because I'm a strong personality.
So how to be a strong personality while you celebrate others that are strong personalities in the room.

Christine Laperriere:
That's a very interesting and very cool concept that I don't think a lot of people talk about or surface very often.
And you're exactly right.
When you bring these really powerful personalities together, it's like any sports team, right?
You can have all the best individual players, but if that team doesn't know how to play together, it's a failure.

Naomi Titleman:
And yet, when you have strong personalities that know how to play together, boy, do they move mountains, right?

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Naomi Titleman:
So the amplification force, the effect is really high when you have that.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
So can you give us any tips or specific examples of things that you saw them do that really helped drive some of those bigger ideas home, like the art of courage and leveraging these brilliant powerful personalities?
Give me some of the tips of like, how did this person actually do this?

Naomi Titleman:
It's interesting.
The more I live on this earth, the more I realize so much of that is titration of little things you do and not necessarily some big playbook, if you will.
Leadership, in my opinion, is something you do every minute.
And so every micro decision you take to interact with somebody is an expression of what kind of leader you are.
So the one thing I'd say is like, so I'll give you an example.
So with her, I had made a massive business decision that brought the company to a particular point where that decision didn't work out.
And I called her up, I think on a Friday night, midnight, and I said, it's not going to work out.
And we were about to lose quite a bit of money.
And again, by this time, I had also learned sort of the tenets of leadership of the buck stopping here and leaders take all the failures and spread all the glory, right?
So I opened that playbook and I fully expected her to agree with me.
And I said, you know, this is no one's fault.
This buck stops with me.
If you have to do a playbook of what went wrong, it stops with me.
The team did an amazing job.
They went over and above, et cetera, and she listened to me.
And I said, and if you want me to resign, and I'd be happy to, right?
I don't want to have a situation where there's a blame circle here.
This is just, you know, that's what business is.
We make bets and sometimes they don't work out.
And she said, what the hell are you talking about?
Like, why do you think I hired you?
Like, she's like, this is what happens.
Leaders make bets and what you just reacted as is the reason why there is no way in hell.
I would first of all like you.
And that was also really valuable for me to know that I worked for a leader that had that central sort of ethos of appreciating that the buck stops here that appreciated that they don't roll crap downhill, right?
And it made me realize how deliberate she was in hiring me because I showed that of myself in the process.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Naomi Titleman:
And it's great to see it in action when it mattered, when there was a loss.
When there was, when it was hurting and she could have just said.
I learned courage, right?
I learned how to be courageous.
Courage is useless in words alone, right?
It is actually tested when there's something to lose, right?
When there's something lost.

Christine Laperriere:
You know what I hear?
There is an unconditional backing of you, which is really cool when I think of, if you think of like parents and the way kids experience love, it's like very different if we get conditional love or unconditional love.
Do you know what I mean?
And when she's saying, listen, I hired you for you and your leadership, not because I knew every single day you were going to make every perfect decision and see that into the future.
You know what I mean?
We just, we couldn't hire somebody on micro things.

Naomi Titleman:
It is very rare that they do that on big, big mistakes, right?
And you're right.
I don't know if it was unconditional because she was tough on me on a lot of things, like it gets back to like critique, et cetera.
I don't know if it was so much unconditional as it was value driven.
And sometimes I think people assume, like the reason I'm kind of shy from that unconditional word is sometimes people assume not being criticized is being unconditional, right?
And they can't hear critique in a way that is essentially trying to make them better, right?
And so the unconditional, I'm always shy from words of like unconditional or safe, because I often tell people like, there's no winning without risk.
There's no winning without knowing that some conditions can break things, but it's not really on the right wavelength when it comes to values.

Christine Laperriere:
It just, is there something really cool about the fact that she still valued you as a team member in that exact moment?
She hadn't decided to kick you off the team.
She didn't say, oh, you know, you missed the winning touchdown.
You know, we're going to renegotiate your contract next year.
You know what I mean?
It was like- 

Naomi Titleman:
Precisely.
And it's so funny because she's also like, most leaders have to let go of people, right?

Christine Laperriere:
Sure.

Naomi Titleman:
In your career.

Christine Laperriere:
That's what you do, yeah.

Naomi Titleman:
But what's interesting is the art I learned from her and from many others is that those decisions actually are made in the calm of day, not in the heat of failure.
And the heat of failure when you do those things actually signals to the rest of the workforce that courage is punished.

Christine Laperriere:
I really, really love that.
And I work with that on my own clients all the time where we talk about the state of mind people are in when they make big decisions.
And I think you just nailed it, right?
It's just that self-awareness or that emotional intelligence that allows you to make decisions from the right position, right?
The right state of mind.
That's amazing.
So now I'm just going to ask your opinion.
I work with a lot of organizations who are making decisions over investing dollars and building up best bosses and amazing leaders.
I always like to say, what is the impact to the bottom line when you have a best boss ever in the business versus not?

Naomi Titleman:
I think that more than even compensation, people want to be seen, valued, and developed.
I'm not saying people want to be underpaid, but I think that compensation becomes the only conversation in the absence of those things.
And so the price you pay for disruption and turnover and so many other things, and just our work life is the most of our lives.
And just the mental health you provide and the cultural health you provide when you aspire to be a good leader is insurmountable, right?
It's just unbelievable.
And so it's incalculable, I mean.
And so I think that it has, one day maybe we'll be able to have the metrics to be able to quantify this in a proper way that the bean counters will understand.
But I think that ultimately, the only people that think in the form of compensation are the people that are not investing in being that kind of leader.

Christine Laperriere:
Right, I completely agree.
And when you think in your career of leaders that you worked with that maybe were more of a challenge for you to work with, they don't have to be the worst case stereo, but just ones that were a challenge, what are some of the things that they did that didn't work well for you or made it harder for you to be your amazing talented self?

Naomi Titleman:
Yeah, you know, it's interesting.
I think that I would say that part of having a bad boss is where you are in your mental framework as well.
Like if I had a bad boss now, I think I wouldn't be in the same state that when I used to have bad bosses, right?
Because I wasn't aware of myself and I was unsure of myself.
And so when you have somebody who's walking around with their own issues and their own self-esteem issues crashing into your own uncertainty, it's not going to be a good combo, right?

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Naomi Titleman:
So I'd say the one thing I've noticed is low self-esteem is one of the common threads I've seen.
Which is why I think people really have to work hard if they aspire to be leaders, to be whole people.
There's nothing more dangerous than a powerful low self-esteem person.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Naomi Titleman:
You have to work on yourself and feeling fulfilled if you want to be a leader.
Because you're governing people's lives.
So the ones that I feel like didn't serve me as well or others was people who I felt like had low self-esteem.
Really, you know, felt much better when they pointed out all your failings, right?

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Naomi Titleman:
I felt much better.
Never really, you know, had this philosophy of like, I can't compliment too much because that will make their heads bigger or they may leave us, right?
Because they're so big.
Like keeping somebody's wings tight and clipped is what's going to keep people in your company, right?
If people are going to fly away from you, they're going to fly away from you.
And I think, you know, the reality is if they do it thinking that you've added to their life, that you've just amplified your influence in the world.
Right.
So, you know, I remember, you know, when I've had those situations where I would deliberately think to myself, how do I make it so that I am taking this poison ingesting it, but not passing it down?
And that is when sort of like the old African adage of turning poison into medicine became an art form for me.

Christine Laperriere:
Wow.
I've never heard that before.
So this idea, so tell us a little bit more about this adage and this concept.

Naomi Titleman:
Yeah.
So, you know, like I would have a situation, like I had one boss who was just, who would just scream at people all the time.
I'm sure he had his own issues, right?
Or another one who only took credit for himself, never was generous about how he spread compliments.
And, you know, I'd have one of those situations, or was okay putting his team at risk, but distanced himself from, you know, either business risk or other things, right?

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Naomi Titleman:
And I used to think that, you know, okay, so I would leave the meeting and I would say, okay, take a breath.
That's when I started adopting things like meditation.
And again, like, if you don't want to be a person that rolls hurt from you to somebody else, you have to figure out how to break that cycle, right?
So I would meditate, I would do something, and then I would go into a meeting with my team and I would be a completely different person.
And I would, you know, it was a tough thing where you did a great job.
We're going to do this.
These are the learnings.
And again, like practicing what I wish somebody else was doing for me clumsily at that age, obviously, right?
As we're forming, but really making sure that like I detoxed before I went into a meeting with them.
I never did it, you know, perfectly all the time because we're all human.

Christine Laperriere:
Sure.

Naomi Titleman:
And I, you know, I also learned the site, sort of the art of like short circuiting my mistakes.
So if I spoke to somebody harshly or if I did something very quickly after that saying, you know, I'm sorry, I didn't, that was not done well, you know?
Just quickly, like not letting people's mental, sort of like what I call thought bubbles fester.
Yes.
And so, you know, I learned those things.
I practiced those things.
This is what I mean about like turning poison into medicine.
And it's sort of like, I think that, that sort of rigor helped me because, you know, when you become a leader, that's exactly what happens.
Your inbox is full of horrible, difficult to solve things, but you have to turn around and be authentically inspirational.
Not just with your words, but with your energy and your spirit.
And so, you know, you have to learn how to turn poison into medicine if you want to be an effective leader.

Naomi Titleman:
Right.
I think that's amazing.
So it's interesting because my last question for you, and you might have answered it, but I'm going to ask you anyway.
If you had to teach or advise future leaders who are listening to this show right now, and they're trying to be best bosses in their own right, what tips would you give them?
What would you tell them to focus on?
You know, give them some words of wisdom as they are kind of walking back into their day, trying to live some of these new principles.

Naomi Titleman:
So I think there are two buckets.
One is hardcore techniques, right?
So definitely be an avid reader of like management sort of techniques, behavioral science, all the things that sort of technically help you, right?
It's already been written in the books.
So there's no point in, there's nobody gets like originality scores in this.
You're either a good reader or you're not, right?
So the one thing I'd say is like go read the books.
Listen to the podcasts like yours and everybody else, right?
But the second thing I'd tell you is all of that is useless.
In fact, I know a lot of people that know how to say all of those things, but behind the curtain are not, right?
All of that is useless unless you work on yourself.
You know how they say like leadership doesn't make people, it just reveals them, right?
You have to decide what kind of human being are you going to be when you arrive because you will be revealed, whoever you are.

Christine Laperriere:
I love it.
That is a perfect ending to this amazing conversation.
Thank you so much.
I really, really appreciate it, Lule.
And if people want to find you, check out eToro and find you on LinkedIn.

Naomi Titleman:
eToro.com and check us out.
It's a fantastic community of investors.
In terms of myself, I can either be found on LinkedIn or X now, I guess, not Twitter.

Christine Laperriere:
Gotcha.
Excellent.
Well, thank you again.
I really appreciate you coming on the show.

Naomi Titleman:
Of course.
Good luck and nice to meet you.

Christine Laperriere:
If you want to hear more, join me at christinelaperriere.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 62
Title: 
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Marianne Haegeli

Christine Laperriere:
Today, I have a special guest, Marianne Haegeli, who is actually calling from Zurich, Switzerland right now, which we're so excited to have you.
We met through a mutual connection, so I just love the fact that this idea inspired you and that you agreed to sign up to talk to me on the show.
Thank you, Marianne.

Marianne Haegeli:
Well, thank you, Christine, for having me.
I'm very excited to be here.
It actually feeds in really well that I'm calling from Zurich today.
We have a new pilot project going at our parent company called Work From Anywhere for one week out of the year, which I think is a brilliant leadership project to implement.
I'm taking full advantage because I also provided training to all employees on how you can make this a success.
Of course, I had to test it out, obviously.

Christine Laperriere:
I think that's perfect.
That is perfect.
You're getting a chance to enjoy your life outside of work this week.
Probably see some exciting sights.

Marianne Haegeli:
Yeah, well, it's family that I have here, and so I had to manage everybody's expectations because of the six hour time difference where I am right now.
It's eight o'clock at night, so I get to spend the mornings having coffee and do fun stuff with my friends and my family.
And then at two p.m., it's nothing but work.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
That sounds amazing.
And I think a lot of people out there would love that type of flexibility.
So and tell us really quick, just a little bit about you, just so that everybody listening gets a little bit of context.

Marianne Haegeli:
Yes, I am currently the director for learning and leadership at a very small startup called Ensight, N-S-I-T-E.
And we are an enterprise of the national industries for the blind.
And so I'm going to introduce myself the way I would with any of our audience members when we do training.
I'm a 61 year old white woman.
I wear glasses, have very short hair.
I like to tend it salt and pepper, but I think it's trending heavily to just salt right now.
So that gives you an idea that I've been in the field of learning and development for longer than I care to admit.
And I've worked for nonprofits, for for-profits, for the U.S.
government, for private schools, for institutions of higher education, and loved every bit of it.
And what I'm doing for Ensight right now is building really, I don't think it's an exaggeration to say it's the first ever comprehensive employment readiness and career skills training from blind and visually impaired folks.
And then we help them get gainfully employed.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
I'm doing an applause, a silent applause, because I don't, but you know what, I love to hear that.
That sounds like you're adding big value to some people's lives out there.

Marianne Haegeli:
I really feel that way.
I mean, a lot of people out there do similar things that we do.
And I have to tell you, there's never a day where I wonder why I get up in the morning.
I am loving this job and getting into this kind of engagement at my stage in my career is just unbelievable.
I feel so fortunate.

Christine Laperriere:
That's amazing.
So I'm going to dive right into our big question.
Who, if you have one or I'll leave the question open to you, but who is your best boss ever?

Marianne Haegeli:
I have three best bosses ever.
Lucky.
Yeah, I've been very fortunate.
So it's kind of what makes them the best boss ever at that time in my career, kind of defines how my career progressed.
The first best boss ever was when I started working for a large consulting firm, government consulting around the area.
And he was just amazing because he, within minutes, figured out what made me tick and never stopped asking what made me tick and responded to that by being the best possible manager I could ever have.
He gave me enough leeway to get creative, innovate.
He asked for my opinion, but he was always there if I needed him.
So he provided me the brilliant consulting apprenticeship.
And I'll tell you a story that really formed the way I view my role or have viewed my role ever since.
My very first engagement with that company was a huge transformation project with the Department of Homeland Security.
Project meeting, government leads there, and our project manager, who was not my best boss ever, but I equate the two because they have the same attitude, were in this meeting.
And I'm sitting there thinking, okay, this is going to be one of these dull kickoff meetings for a major project.
And this colleague of mine said to the government project manager, the following words, we're glad to be back.
You've had us back three years in a row.
Every time we gave you our services, we made our recommendations and you didn't implement and you didn't transform.
I'm here to tell you that this is the last time that in good conscience, we can take your money.
So if you again, don't implement our recommendations, we will not bid on the next contract.
And I almost fell off my chair and I thought this is what you want in an ethical consultant.
And that was the attitude of the whole organization and my best boss ever at that time personified all of that.
So to me, that was a key.
I love the integrity that stands behind that, right?
Yeah.
And it's usually not the reputation of government consultants, right?
They're viewed as slimy and somewhat, you know, cutting corners, but this was very much a no surprises approach in every single one of our projects.
You will not hide stuff from the client ever.
And amongst ourselves, we live that as well.
So that whole transparency and building of trust was just utterly amazing.
So that was very formative for me.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
I love that example too, because it just sends the message, right?
You're leading with integrity and transparency and you're not, we're going to hit the nail on the head with that.
Amazing.
So then you had two more, so keep going.

Marianne Haegeli:
Yeah.
So the second one was an amazing leader in terms of innovation and taking my expertise seriously, which is not always the case, especially at that time, I was a young woman working for a somewhat older director level manager.
And I had done some work for the state department, some really innovative stuff, and they hired me as the trusted advisor for the state department because we were implementing worldwide new visa information systems.
Crazy stuff.
It was a no cost to the government contract to the tune of about a hundred million.
Now I had to learn the for-profit world.
I came from being a government consultant and now I'm in the for-profit world where I have to figure out business cases that I have to sell to the C-suite and it's no cost to the government.
So even a bigger company than the other one I just described, this company went at risk to the tune of tens of millions of dollars, taking it in one little applicant fee at a time.
So it was a huge risk for the company, but this director gave me the best apprenticeship ever in terms of thinking through the process of a really complex operation in a foreign country where you had to consider local laws, you had to consider currency exchange rates, cultural considerations about how to do business in a contact center in El Salvador.
It was amazing.
And the way he taught was to sit down and say, okay, let's figure out Polish pricing.
And we'd literally have the proverbial napkin in a beer garden in Germany.
And we'd map out every step that we could think of that we needed to come up with pricing that will work.
It was fantastic.

Christine Laperriere:
So it sounds like not only was he extremely thoughtful about your expertise and taking it seriously, it also sounds like he was really able to think about the customer and the process and the experience right through the end user, if you call it.
I'm hearing that it wasn't, like you said, local laws and currency.
And what is that person experiencing when they're interacting with this?

Marianne Haegeli:
Yeah, exactly.
It went from not just the client, but also the end user.
What tiny little pieces need to go into this?
And it was literally, you felt like an eagle at that table, even though my experience was nothing close to what he was bringing to the table.
But he never gave me the feeling that I was ignorant or just didn't understand.
We were sitting there and he would say, okay, now we need to factor this in and then there's probably going to be value added tax that we need to factor in.
Or maybe that's not a thing in this country.
And can we take the call that the call will originate in Germany?
Can we answer it in Turkey?
And then we would explore together how we can find a solution.
And always with both the end user, the visa applicant in mind, and the client at the government side, the consular officers, how do we make their lives easier?

Christine Laperriere:
Wow.

Marianne Haegeli:
But it was this feeling I got that I wasn't equal.
I had expertise on the visa side, he had expertise on the business case side, and together we were working to find a solution.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
That's amazing.
And it was truly, you know, for you, that feeling of being valued at the table probably brought more creativity and more ideas.

Marianne Haegeli:
Yeah, the confidence after a while, right?
You'd still go and check back, obviously, with everything.
But it was just amazing to see how something could come out of very little knowledge on my part with the right mentoring and support from somebody with all the experience that I didn't have.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
So he valued the way you think, but maybe not the depth of experience necessarily.

Marianne Haegeli:
Exactly.
But he knew he had a vested interest in getting me to that experience level, because within a year, year and a half, all he needed from me, I submitted stuff for approval, and he knew it was going to be there.
And he had trained me the best way I could have ever been trained.

Christine Laperriere:
That's amazing.
So I'm just making notes because these are such great ideas.
Third boss.

Marianne Haegeli:
The third boss is my current boss.

Christine Laperriere:
Okay.

Marianne Haegeli:
Totally new thing.
I really felt now I'm coming to this with a lot of experience.
I almost didn't apply for the job because I thought they're looking for somebody with experience dealing with blind and visually impaired folks.
And even though I've had some, I have some friends with issues like that.
I had a former business partner, but I felt I didn't know enough to apply for this job.
And then I did anyway, because it just sounded too cool to be true startup environment.
And at my age, who wouldn't want to get involved in a startup?
So startup, innovation, all of this.
So we have this first interview and I said to him, I got to ask you a question, because I've seen this in other nonprofits before, right?
And so it is a nonprofit and you say you want innovation and you say you want entrepreneurial spirit.
And I need to find out whether that's really true, because I've seen that in other places where they say they want it.
And then you come with crazy ideas and they say, ah, you know what?
We've always done it this way.
Let's just stick to that.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
Stop getting out of the box.
Let's put you back in the box.

Marianne Haegeli:
And he was, his answer was brilliant.
He said, listen, this has never been done before.
We need to not just think outside the box.
We need to work from way beyond the box to make this a success.
It's going to be a wild ride.
I'm telling you, we have the support of an amazing parent company, which is more than most startups have.
And I am telling you now the reason I want you in this role is because of your crazy background with other weird projects that came out of nowhere.
And the other thing I think really appealed to him was my intercultural background.
If you haven't noticed that, I'm not just calling from Zurich, but that cute accent I have is Swiss.
So I've lived in the States almost 40 years.
I've lived in Pakistan for two years and in Germany for two years, and I've traveled all over the world.
And to me, intercultural competency and intercultural understanding is what I believe makes me a better leader because every time I open my mouth, I'm trying to figure out how do I need to say this in this environment so that it arrives in an intelligible way with my audience, whoever that may be.
And I think my current best boss ever gets that because he's also well traveled and dealt with a lot of different cultures.
So it's just been amazing.
And with him, I get even more trust.
We will sit down and he will say, this is a challenge.
What do you think we should do?
And that is such an honor for me.
And it forces me to think very carefully because sometimes my crazy ideas come out a little too fast.
But then we can sit down together and figure it out.
And yes, I have not been disappointed.
He wants outside the box.
Yes, he wants and encourages innovation.
And also, like my first best boss ever is there to support me when I need it.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
So give us some examples of that.
Tell us even more.
What does that look like?
You know, if I was following you around around the world and getting a chance to see all of this in action, what things would I notice?

Marianne Haegeli:
So let me put it in maybe a better known leadership model.
I've worked a lot.
I've done a lot of leadership development training and I'm relying a lot on Blanchard and their concept of a situational approach to leadership.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Marianne Haegeli:
So their argument is that as an effective leader, you need to match your leadership style, not only to the individual, but also to the task at hand, because that individual at this task may need more guidance than on another task.
And the example we have, we migrated at one of my former employers from a regular phone system to voiceover IP.
We had an amazing communications director, strategic communications.
That guy was a wizard.
We worked this transition and all of a sudden he was lost.
He said, I don't know how to do this.
I have to use my computer to make a phone call.
What is this?
This was pre-pandemic for everybody learned.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Marianne Haegeli:
So while he was the consummate expert in all things strategic communications, he was an absolute beginner on how to use this new technology.
So micromanagement and hands-on guidance was required until he became more comfortable and then you can let go a little more.
And so it became a six month training experience where, you know, he was able to get more proficient and I was able to step back a little every month and things worked out really well.
But for that to be successful, I had to understand that he was from a different generation, that he was used to picking up a phone and having that receiver in hand.
And I had to figure out how to take the fear of the technology out of him and show him that it's absolutely the same thing.
Instead of picking up the receiver, you click on that phone icon.
So you have to just think about, you know, how he's very insecure in this situation when normally he's the consummate expert.
That's a scary place to be.
So you can't walk in and say, well, it's really simple.
Here's five steps.
Just follow the list.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
You needed the handholding and support to help build the new habit and build the new skills.
And then you, as you coach him through that, you can slowly start to move away from that again.

Marianne Haegeli:
Yeah.
And so to me, that's, that's what leadership should be all about.
Leadership we all know is not about the leader.
It's about everybody else, right?
When you move to a different culture, it's incumbent upon you to figure out how that culture functions and how to communicate effectively within that culture.
And that's the same with leadership.
I don't talk to all of my colleagues the same way.
I adjust and not just to that colleague, but on the task we're talking about and possibly on the time of day or how they're feeling on that given day.
And I have to tell you, for me, one of the reasons why this is an absolute dream job right now is because not only is it yet another apprenticeship, but it's a cross-cultural adventure.
I am now we have two colleagues on the team who are completely blind and one who is visually impaired.
And it's a daily challenge for me to make sure that everything I produce is accessible to them.
I spend an ordinary amount of time sitting with them and saying, okay, tell me what you see as you're using your screen reader.
Is my PowerPoint presentation accessible to you?
Where could I do better?
And I have learned so much in the last year and a half.
It's utterly amazing.
And the learning continues.
So I'm learning a new language.
I'm learning a new culture, and I get to innovate.

Christine Laperriere:
I mean, it's the trifecta.
Amazing.
That is so great.
Well, listen, I love that.
And I love the stories of those three bosses that you shared.
So just bringing this back to, and I want you to think about this, given all the different experience you have, what is the business case?
What's the impact to the bottom line if an organization has a best boss ever versus not?

Marianne Haegeli:
It's huge.
I think if you have a best boss ever, and again, I'm a little biased.
I mean, it is intercultural stuff, right?
But if that best boss can use those cultural competencies, those intercultural competencies to figure out how to talk to each person the way they need to hear whatever the message is, whether it's a difficult conversation or a motivational speech or saying, here's the bottom line.
Let's go get it, whatever it is.
If they're capable of doing that, then the business will take care of itself.
You don't have to apply excessive guidance.
You can really just motivate people to be the best at what they are.
I think the other thing that's really important about a best boss is that they build a team based on how the team fits together, keeping in mind the end goal.
Sometimes it's not the person with the very best skill and years of experience.
Sometimes it's the person who's the best fit culturally.
You can always add skills, but fit is difficult sometimes.
I think it's absolutely key to success to have a best boss.

Christine Laperriere:
When you think of leaders that you've worked with who they don't ring the bell of your favorite, and maybe they limited or stifled your creativity or some of what you bring to the table, tell us a little bit about what are the traits of that kind of leader?
What do we want to watch out for?

Marianne Haegeli:
Yeah, I have a beautiful example of that, too.
I had a leader who got hired in after I was there for a while, and the first thing they told me when they walked in was, I don't really know anything about what you do in learning and development.
That's going to be your thing.
Move on.
Admitting that they know nothing about what I do is not the problem.
The problem came when within two or three months, they didn't seem to believe in my expertise.
Well, if you're not the expert, but I was hired because I'm supposed to be the expert, and you will not only not ask for my opinion before you make decisions, but you will certainly never take my suggestions and stifle my innovative and entrepreneurial spirit, that is absolutely moralizing.
And again, I don't expect a leader to know everything.
On the contrary, I think an effective leader hires people who are completely unlike them and compliment their strengths and build it in that way.
I don't want to have 15 mini-me's running around.
That's not going to go anywhere.
I need somebody who is not Marianne.
There's stuff I know I'm not very good at.
Those are the people I want to hire who have those skills that I'm missing.
So that was a problem for me.

Christine Laperriere:
Well, and it's so interesting because you just pointed out something like, so the person just didn't include you or didn't invite your expertise to the table.
And so sometimes it's funny and we think of a not great leader as somebody who says something terrible or does something awful.
But the truth is, it's almost what they don't do.
It's the vacuum of what was missing.

Marianne Haegeli:
Well, you know, and part of the problem is invariably there be fallout and guess who gets to deal with that.
Those are the challenges.
Again, I have no issue with you being open about not having the expertise.
That's why you have me.
But then just ignoring the fact that you have that expertise on your team, that's the problem.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
And so just to kind of pull this together, there are some amazing leaders out there listening to this right now, trying to sharpen their skills to be best bosses.
If you had to give them any tips, tricks, practices, things that you really want them to take away from what you shared today, what would you advise them to do?

Marianne Haegeli:
Do anything you can to become aware of what's going on with your team members.
Right.
I mean, it's that active listening, that genuine interest and what makes them take and what's happening with them today in this moment.
I know we get buried in work and we forget to listen and because we don't have time or whatever.
I have a rule where I tell my team members, I know I get frazzled sometimes, but if you need my undivided attention, tell me I need you for two minutes in the conference room and you will have my undivided attention.
I'll drop anything and you'll have my undivided attention because if I stop paying attention to what it is you need, I am not doing my job.
So it's that cross-cultural understanding.
It makes you vulnerable, which is actually a good thing because you can admit that sometimes things are too much for you too.
Right.
Yep.
But if you make an effort to understand them, I guarantee you they'll make an effort to understand you and it will be, the sky is going to be the limit in terms of meeting your business goals.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
Well, listen, thank you so much for sharing your wisdom with us.
I definitely will say wisdom because I got lots of amazing nuggets and I'm sitting here smiling at all these great ideas that you just filled my head with.
So thank you, Mary Ann, so much.

Marianne Haegeli:
Thank you, Christine.
It's been an absolute pleasure.

Christine Laperriere:
If you want to hear more, join me at christinlaperrier.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.Podcast: Best Boss Ever Podcast
Episode: 63
Title: 
Host: Christine Laperriere
Guest: Jessica Schultchen

Christine Laperriere:
And today I have Jessica Schultchen on.
Jessica, can you please share your name and say it perfectly for me?
And then just tell everybody a little bit about you.

Jessica Schultchen:
Yeah, absolutely.
Thanks, Christine.
My name is Jessica Schultchen.
I am the Director of Strategic Operations with the Government of Alberta.
And I, in a previous life, was a classroom teacher in the K-12 public education system here in Alberta before transitioning over to be a public servant of the government.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
And thank you.
So it's so neat.
We met through LinkedIn and it sounds like this discussion around best boss ever and the podcast that I've been running has inspired you to think about a leader that pretty near and dear to your heart.

Jessica Schultchen:
Yeah, absolutely.
I am definitely a big fangirl and love the podcast, love all the products you make for LinkedIn and so on.
So I've been using your podcast in, you know, professional development, professional learning settings for a couple of years.
And I always thought about, you know, who would be my best boss ever.
And it's kind of taken me a year or so to think about it because I've had many great ones, but there is someone special that I think kind of hits it even on a different level.

Christine Laperriere:
All right.
Well, definitely.
Please tell us a little bit about your best boss ever.

Jessica Schultchen:
So the best boss I think that I've ever had is Brock Higginson.
And Brock Higginson was my principal when I was a classroom teacher in a past life.
Usually when you think of a principal in a school, historically, especially across Canada, that usually used to be kind of like the best teacher in the building, right?
It was kind of the master teacher.
It was the person that everybody wanted to be in their class and also the person who had the best results with student learning.
And usually it was a very experienced person, very more towards the end of their career and really a subject matter expert.
So we're really, really knowledgeable about a subject area.
And Brock kind of broke all those rules in a super inspiring way.
So Brock became a principal after only two years of teaching, which is kind of unheard of.

Christine Laperriere:
Wow.
That's pretty quick.

Jessica Schultchen:
Yeah.
And so his career kind of began in a rural school authority in the province that, you know, there was a need for a principal and he kind of stepped up and modeled that kind of safe risk taking and service really is a great servant leader and he is somebody who, you know, always really just wants to make a positive impact on other people.
And so Brock ended up becoming my principal for two years when I was teaching in an elementary school.
And he really just, like I said, exemplified that servant leadership, but also the idea of lifelong learning.
And always being able to create an environment for staff and students that was conducive to learning and growth for adults and for kids.
And in the field of education, there is a study of management, but it's a classroom management study.
Most teachers and educators really think about, you know, how to build safe and caring schools and how to build environments where kids can perform their best.
And Brock was the best leader, I believe, and understanding that that exact same philosophy actually has to be applied to your staff as adults.
So he treated us the way we wanted to treat the kids.
And that was a whole other level of servant leadership.

Christine Laperriere:
So give me some examples.
This is a fascinating idea.
Share with us, you know, kind of what is it like to work with somebody?
Like what are, what are the meetings like?
What are the conversations like?
You know, tell me more.

Jessica Schultchen:
Yeah.
So I guess what I would first start with is the context of my first impression of Brock as a leader.
And it's actually something he didn't do to me.
It's something he did to another staff member.
So when Brock first came in over the summer, he was just trying to build some relationships, you know, get to know his staff before the kids come in for the school year.
And Brock walked around and found a first year teacher prepping in their classroom, which is very typical.
And in elementary school, laminating is kind of the bane of your existence.
Okay.
So you laminate and plastify everything because kids spill everything and you use these labels all year, but it is a good investment in your time.
Okay.
So Brock finds this first year teacher with a huge role of laminating.
And he says to him, Hey, what are you doing?
And he says, Oh, I'm just cutting out some laminate and getting ready for his first day school.
You know, and Brock says, do you want me to do it for you?
And I've never to this day ever heard another leader be so willing to take off manual administrative tasks off the plate of their staff, you know, like he truly recognized in that moment that he had the capacity to cut that out for him and to support that first year teacher would give him so much more mental freedom.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
It sounds like a tedious, miserable process that like you said is worthwhile, but it sounds kind of like a miserable part of the job.

Jessica Schultchen:
Yeah.
And it's something that so many principals or leaders would say, you know, that's below my pay grade.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Jessica Schultchen:
Right.
I don't cut stuff out anymore.
And it's that idea of like being willing to see the organization from the perspective of your staff and see that from his perspective as a first year teacher, that individual actually his whole life was consumed with basic, how am I going to make my classroom function?

Christine Laperriere:
Right.

Jessica Schultchen:
It'd be a safe place for the kids to arrive.
Whereas maybe Brock in his lens is thinking about what does your teaching strategy look like or your method, but Brock is an excellent leader at differentiating too for his staff and recognizing that different staff are in different places in their growth and their learning that you as a leader adapt to them to push them for growth no matter where they are.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
So he understood how to align the way he worked and customize it for each staff member that he was working with.

Jessica Schultchen:
Yeah.
And cause in this context, he's actually an English speaking only principal, but he's leading a team of half French, half English staff and classes in this building.
It's just a perfect example of how you might not be able to speak the language all the time or belong to something in the full way, but that interpersonal relationship is your gateway.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
So he would learn how to do that even if he didn't have the language skill.
Amazing.
And so did you have staff meetings?
Did you have times where he had to pull all of you together?

Jessica Schultchen:
Yeah, absolutely.
So he was really instrumental in bringing us back to basics and bringing us back to like, what are our values and what are we trying to achieve?
So in regards to the way we functioned as teachers and as teams, he would ask us, you know, to reflect on, do you have the things that are going to set your kids up for success?
So, you know, do you have ongoing assessment?
Do you have routines?
Do you have relationships?
And then can those three things actually be adapted for each individual in your classroom?
And so he would kind of model this process of what it would look like with a student with his staff.
So one really neat thing he did was that he had this internal grant program.
So in a school, money is tight.

Christine Laperriere:
Oh, yeah, right.

Jessica Schultchen:
Yeah.
And instead of just allocating individual budgets or making everything go through him and a first come first serve basis, he created this grant program where an individual teacher could come up with a business case, like an idea of something they need and why it would improve their performance and their students' performance.
And then you could request up to $2,000 for that.
So, for example, one staff member had students who would really benefit from like standing bike stations where the desk is attached to a bike.

Christine Laperriere:
So very cool.

Jessica Schultchen:
Yeah, very cool.
And so for me, I made a case that I would like to make an activity where I could bring students from different school authorities to one building and have like a community day.
And so we use that money to pay for their busing.
And that's something that the other school authorities at that time didn't have in their budget.
So we paid the bill because in the long run, it was the best thing for us building relationships as professionals, best thing for the students to see other people to which they belong.
And it was also a great growth opportunity for us because we saw how other teachers worked.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
That's the grant idea is fantastic.
And it, it sounds like a great opportunity to give teachers a little bit of autonomy, right?
To, because you're, like you said, budget's very tough and it sounds like sometimes it's not the easiest type of a job to have freedom to think outside the box, right?
Because it's like, there's not money for that.
There's not money for that.
Right.
So it's just such a cool way to encourage some creative thinking, like, which is so much of what energizes a lot of us is to want to be able to execute on those cool ideas that sit outside of our day job.

Jessica Schultchen:
Yeah.
And I think that was the thing is that Brock was able to still like spark enthusiasm despite difficult situations.
And he was able to build collegiality and that internal network of support.
Because again, he was just modeling it.
He was just showing up in your classroom and offering to help.
He was showing colleagues how to support each other better too.

Christine Laperriere:
It's amazing.
So definitely one of those that his actions spoke louder than words is really what I'm hearing in some of those examples.

Jessica Schultchen:
Yeah, absolutely.
And at the same time, you know, like work wasn't just all of who Brock is.
Brock continued to somehow be a realtor.

Christine Laperriere:
Oh my gosh.

Jessica Schultchen:
Continued to be a 40 under 40 with the Chambers of Commerce.
And he continued to like mentor and coach at sports teams and volunteer for all, you know, run these music concerts in the summer on his time off.
And he was just kind of one of these, you know, he's one of these people who can really inspire that abundance mindset too, that it's actually not that like we're all burning out.
It's that we're not maybe always using our energy in the right places.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
And he, he knows how to do the things that energize him and light him up so that he could really stay fueled off of that.

Jessica Schultchen:
And he would encourage us, you know, to be our whole selves and to not, this was never like a leader who would expect you to work, you know, all the time or anything like that.
He is definitely a leader who valued again, like if you expect the students to not be able to go home and do homework all night, why would I expect my staff to do that?

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
We want you to work hard, but we want you to have a life and re-energize and come back fresh, right?

Jessica Schultchen:
Yeah.

Christine Laperriere:
Yeah.
Amazing.
Amazing.
I just love this story.
This is amazing.
Anything else that you want to share about him before I ask you some more questions?

Jessica Schultchen:
I think just that there was one time where after working with him for a couple of years, you know, I really loved working with him.
I really found him to be like an excellent leader.
And I truly believe like in every ounce of him, he believed in me and my potential.
And I remember going to him one day and saying, I saw this other posting and I like, it is what I need.
It's the right growth, but you're the right leader.
What do I do?
And I remember Brock saying to me, you should never say no to the opportunity to help someone.
And that has resonated with me so deeply.
And that was a lot of why I think I had the confidence to leave a classroom and move to public service and think, well, like, you know, how can I, how can I help people?
And if I have the opportunity, I should take it and I should be courageous and I should channel my inner Brock and I should, you know, be the second year principal because who cares what anyone thinks if your goal is to serve and make people's lives better.
If your intention is true, just go for it.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
What an amazing, I mean, and that sounds like, you know, the gift, like that's, it's like great bosses.
They kind of leave a stamp on you, right?
They make you think about how you're going to lead because you always want to, you want to give other people that same experience.
Right.
And so just him being so focused on never say no to an opportunity to help others and it doesn't, my ego is absolutely second, third, fourth on the list of things that are in concern when you have an opportunity to help others.
Right.
And so I just think that's such a cool legacy or mark, you know, that he's made on you.

Jessica Schultchen:
Yeah, absolutely.
And it's something that like I have shared with every person I've ever mentored, every student teacher, every public servant that I have mentored and it's something that ultimately, you know, I have heard other leaders say in different ways, in different, you know, we do the best we can with what we have and those kinds of things, but there's something about the idea of it being so service oriented.
Right.
That is kind of on a different level than just being like a visionary leader, but really, truly being a servant leader that you want to make the world a better place and it's really not about you.

Christine Laperriere:
That's amazing.
And I have to say, I mean, teachers and principals, like the mark that they make, I mean, I even have memories of my principal when I was in second grade, you know what I mean?
And just like the mark that, you know, just the positive energy and the mark, I mean, I should do a show on him at some point.
My memories are probably faded, but just that, you know, the impact, right?
And so there are going to be children who grow into adults and remember, you know, the teachers and the principals of their schools and how they were taught to show up in the world and maybe at home, they didn't see it, but they got a chance to see it at school.
So it's a pretty amazing mark that all of you get to leave on others.

Jessica Schultchen:
And yeah, and like that just reminds me, you know, one thing that Brock did too, that was very unique.
I've never seen anyone else do this.
So he stands outside the school every day and waves and greets every single student and parent who comes.
Every single student and parent, 600 kids in that school.
And he stands there, rain and shine in Canada.
Canada.

Christine Laperriere:
For the listeners out here who don't know where you're actually calling from, that is a huge testament to his commitment right there in the blizzards and in the, in the wind.

Jessica Schultchen:
And I just remember that, you know, like the kids, the kids and the parents look forward to it every day.
And they modeled that friendliness and safe and caring environment again that he expected from his staff.
You should stand at your door and greet your kids because I stand at the school and greet the kids.

Christine Laperriere:
Wow.
Wow.
As a parent of a five and a seven year old, I just can picture how there is nothing more powerful than knowing that your children are in a great place for learning.
So that's gotta leave again, just a different mark on those people who walk out the door and have to go focus on their jobs and just know that, you know, you guys cared enough to greet everybody.
That tells us a lot about what's happening when we walk away.
Right.

Jessica Schultchen:
And I think those things get really overlooked when we think about adults, because we start to think, well, you know, does my staff need me to do a walkabout?
Well, yeah, actually they do.
They do.
They do need you to pop into their office and say, how was your weekend and how are you feeling today?
And that's not actually an extra.
It's not a nice to have.
It's actually foundational to creating psychological safety for your staff, just like it would be the same thing for a child.
And we have to just send them back up and be like, we're kind of all just a little kids in big bodies.
And we still all want to feel safe and cared for.

Christine Laperriere:
Right.
I think that is a amazing point that you're bringing up.
So one of the questions I always like to ask everybody is the impact to the bottom line.
And I know in education and government and different, you know, the bottom line looks different sometimes the way that it shows up.
But I mean, what is Brock's leadership?
Like, what is that impact that he makes, quote unquote, to the bottom line of that school?
How would you describe that?

Jessica Schultchen:
Yeah, definitely.
I think that the two things that you do when you increase the bottom line as an educational leader is you and what Brock has done is he increases the capacity of his staff by recognizing emerging leaders and building and investing in them.
And then he uses those great leaders on his staff to build the capacity with some of the more reluctant staff, which is a great strategy.
And then he uses that to ultimately increase his bottom line, which is student learning.
He increases the what, how much and to what level of mastery students are learning in that building.
Because he's increasing the capacity of all of the teachers and research makes it really clear.
It's the teacher and then the principal that impacts student learning.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
Amazing.
I love that because again, it's, you can see the impact, you know, this is, this is measurable.
I can imagine how much more he's getting out of people.
Like you said, that increased capacity.
You could hear that in the stories and examples you gave.
So that makes a lot of sense to me.
And when you think of, let's say, leaders that you've worked with when it wasn't as easy or as great, like what are some of the traits that, that you, you find don't work well for you in a leader?

Jessica Schultchen:
I think that like the best advice for all humans at any age.
I once, when I was a student teacher, I remember once a principal saying, you'll notice that all great teachers have routines.
And I think that is the biggest thing.
Process is what creates stress, right?
Lack of process and clarity and roles and expectations or how the flow of work is going to be achieved is ultimately what creates like anxiety and stress.
People don't know what they're trying to achieve or how to get there.
And so they're just kind of spinning their tires and that creates worry.
And I think that having those routines, but also having this ongoing assessment of like, okay, but just because we have a routine, doesn't mean it has to exist forever.
Like it is in fact necessary to continually revise those processes and be open to change and learning something new.

Christine Laperriere:
And that sounds like exactly what all of us can take away, right?
So even today, would you say you have a routine inside of your own, you know, kind of, you're in a completely different environment now, but you still create that.

Jessica Schultchen:
Yeah, exactly.
And like there were kind of, you know, when I first came to government, I had these two co-managers who also had come from the education sector before, but had been in government for quite a long time.
And I think that those two co-managers were sort of like my indication that what Brock did in a school could be applied in any situation and any organization.
So they, maybe we weren't calling it routines, but we were calling it process.
Maybe we weren't calling it safe and caring schools.
We were calling it psychological safety, but it was the same thing.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
Amazing.
This has been so good.
I love it.
So as people are out there and they're listening and they have one or two like nuggets that they're going to take away from this conversation, I hear routines as, you know, great.
I also hear kind of the way that Brock has demonstrated this amazing leadership toward you.
What tip would you give a leader that's listening to this today and wants to be a little bit more of a best boss ever?

Jessica Schultchen:
I think to see your role as a teacher instead of a supervisor.
So to recognize that actually all great leaders are just really great teachers.
They're people who set up environments for people to succeed and grow.
And so I think modeling humility, modeling that learning process is really important and modeling safe and measurable risk taking, and sometimes modeling failure.
I think that those are the hardest things to get adults to do and that children do very well.
And if we could kind of collectively fail together sometimes and reflect on that and, and welcome that learning opportunity without punishment, that would be the best thing.

Christine Laperriere:
Amazing.
Oh, I just, I love your answer to that.
I have like, I'm grinning from ear to ear over here because I have so many thoughts, but I'm going to, I'm going to just let you shine.
So thank you so much for an awesome interview.
I really appreciate it.
And I'm so glad you took the time to sit down with me, Jessica.

Jessica Schultchen:
Thank you.

Christine Laperriere:
If you want to hear more, join me at christinlaperrier.com and sign up for our newsletter, The Whip.